<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: SECURE COMPUTING CORP
CIK: 0001001916
SIC: 3577
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Information Regarding Forward Looking Statements The following discussion contains forward looking statements, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in the forward looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are summarized in Item 1A above and in the other documents we file with the SEC. These forward looking statements reflect our view only as of the date of this report. We cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievement. We do not undertake any obligation to update or correct any forward looking statements. 28 Table of Contents Executive Overview We are a leading provider of enterprise gateway security solutions. Our best of breed portfolio of solutions provides Web Gateway, Messaging Gateway, and Network Gateway security, as well as Identity and Access Management that are further differentiated by the proactive protection provided by TrustedSource (global intelligence). Our specialized solutions are designed to meet customers needs to balance security and accessibility, and to help them create trusted environments both inside and outside their organizations. Each of our products provides a complete solution in and of itself, and they also integrate with each other for a more comprehensive, unified, and centrally managed solution. We have developed a vision for comprehensive security on the enterprise gateway that embodies the following core design principles: appliance based delivery; application and content awareness; centralized policy, management and reporting; bi directional protection; proactive protection; user management and education; performance; and resiliency. In 2005 we embarked on a strategy to significantly increase our presence in the industry and to define and become the leader in the enterprise gateway security market. We believe that our acquisitions of CyberGuard and CipherTrust in 2006 have laid a strong foundation for our future success. Through the CipherTrust acquisition in 2006, we acquired TrustedSource technology and entered the Messaging Gateway security market. We believe TrustedSource technology is the most precise and comprehensive Internet host reputation system in the world, and we are rolling this system into many of our product lines as a key cornerstone of Global Intelligence security. Recognizing that messaging is now a primary business application in most enterprises, we have implemented a strategy to comprehensively address both inbound and outbound threats and to help our customers insure compliance with federally mandated requirements for the protection of sensitive data. Our Messaging Gateway Security products include IronMail, IronIM, RADAR, and Secure Computing Edge. Also in 2006, we added the Webwasher Web Gateway security product to our Web Security Gateway product line through the CyberGuard acquisition. Web Gateway Security appliances protect enterprises from malware, data leakage, and Internet misuse, while helping to ensure policy enforcement, regulatory compliance, and a productive application environment. This year we continued to differentiate our UTM appliance from the competition with demonstrable zero hour attack protections on high profile Internet attacks (such as the Sendmail vulnerability in March and Microsoft Windows MetaFile WMF attack in January). We also announced plans to merge our newly acquired CyberGuard Firewall/VPN technologies (TSP and Classic) with our Sidewinder G2 Security Appliance in our next generation UTM appliance that has come to market in the first quarter of 2007. The CyberGuard acquisition also brought to us a new paradigm in enterprise central management with the Command Center which we will continue to leverage going forward. We believe Command Centers ability to do administration, configuration, monitoring, and management of software updates for a global appliance deployment coupled with our Security Reporter products central reporting, and full out of the box compliance reports, continue to ensure that both medium and large customers see our network gateway appliances as the product of choice. Early in 2006 we broadened our presence in the authentication market into the IAM space by introducing our SafeWord SecureWire appliance. SafeWord SecureWire is a new, robust technology that functions as the access, authentication, and compliance hub for the entire network. By providing secure access management inside and outside the virtual perimeter, and by consolidating all policies on a single device, SecureWire helps enable our customers to achieve configuration compliance because only properly configured devices are allowed to access their networks. Our Network Gateway Security revenue represented 53% of total revenue and an 87% or $43.3 million increase over the prior year. The acquired CyberGuard TSP and Classic product lines contributed $44.7 million. 29 Table of Contents Our Web Gateway Security revenue represented 26% of total revenue and a 46% or $14.6 million increase over the prior year. The acquired Webwasher product line contributed $18.4 million. This increase was slightly offset by a $3.5 million decline in sales of our Bess and Sentian product lines when these products were discontinued in 2006. Our Identity and Access Management revenue represented 17% of total revenue, which is a 9% increase over the prior year. This increase was driven by sustained demand for high assurance solutions. Messaging Gateway Security revenue, added through the sales of the acquired CipherTrust product line, represented 4% of total revenue for the full year 2006. Because we are unable to establish vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value on the CipherTrust product line revenues, the majority of the revenue from those product lines has been deferred and will be recognized as revenue over the term of the undelivered elements. Our customers operate some of the largest and most sensitive networks and applications in the world. Our partners and customers include the majority of the Dow Jones Global 50 Titans and numerous organizations in the Fortune 1000, as well as banking, financial services, healthcare, telecommunications, manufacturing, public utilities, schools and federal, state and local governments. We also have close relationships with the largest agencies in the U.S. government. International sales accounted for 39% of total revenue during 2006. Major foreign markets for our products include Europe, Japan, China, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. In each market, we have independent channel partners responsible for marketing, selling and supporting our products to resellers and end users. In 2006, our market presence continued to expand through our extensive worldwide network of value added resellers, distributors, and OEM partners. These partners generated 81% of our sales in 2006. Each of our individual products competes with a different group of competitors and products. In this highly competitive market, characterized by rapid technological change, our customers purchasing decisions are based heavily upon the quality of the security our products provide, the ease of installation and management, and the scalability and flexibility of our software. Specific challenges and risks that our product lines face include, but are not limited to: responding to competitor pricing policies and competitive features; rapid technological change in the network security market; and risk of bugs and other errors in our software. On January 11, 2006, we completed our acquisition of CyberGuard Corporation, a leading provider of network security solutions designed to protect enterprises that use the Internet for electronic commerce and secure communication, in a stock and cash transaction valued at $310.7 million. This acquisition strengthened our position as one of the market leaders in Network Gateway Security appliances, and strengthened our position in the Web Gateway Security space. CyberGuard was a logical fit for Secure Computing, enhancing our strategic vision and better positioning us in two rapidly growing segments of the security industry. Along with an expanded customer and partner base, this merger provided us with important competitive advantages in the Network and Web Gateway Security markets. On January 12, 2006, we received from Warburg Pincus Private Equity IX, L.P., a global private equity fund, $70.0 million in proceeds from the issuance of 700,000 of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the preferred stock), a warrant to acquire 1.0 million shares of our common stock that vested on that date and an election of a member to our Board of Directors. Based on a quoted market price as of January 12, 2006 and the fair value of the warrant as determined using the Black Scholes model, we valued the preferred stock at $62.0 million and the warrant at $8.0 million. The proceeds from this transaction were used to finance most of the cash portion of the CyberGuard acquisition. On August 31, 2006, the conversion price for the preferred stock was adjusted from the original price of $13.51 to $12.75 per share and the exercise price for the warrant was adjusted from the original price of $14.74 to $13.85 per share in accordance with an anti dilution provision triggered by the CipherTrust acquisition. On August 31, 2006, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of CipherTrust, Inc., a privately held company. The CipherTrust products provide innovative layered security solutions to stop inbound 30 Table of Contents messaging threats such as spam, viruses, intrusions and phishing, and protect against outbound policy and compliance violations associated with sensitive data leakage. The acquired products from CipherTrust include IronMail, powered by TrustedSource, IronIM, IronMail Edge, IronNet, and RADAR. As a result of the acquisition we expect to establish ourselves as a leader in the Messaging Gateway Security market. In addition to protecting corporate network infrastructures, our combined solutions will address the fast growing Web and Messaging Gateway security needs. On August 31, 2006, we entered into a senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of banks led by Citigroup and UBS Investment Bank. The credit facility provided for a $90.0 million term loan facility, a $20.0 million revolving credit facility, and a swingline loan sub facility. The proceeds from this transaction were used to finance a portion of the CipherTrust acquisition. The term loan matures on August 31, 2013 and is payable in 27 scheduled quarterly installments of $225,000 beginning in December 2006 with a final payment of $83.9 million due at maturity. Interest is payable quarterly on the term loan at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) + 3.25%. The interest rate on the term loan may be adjusted quarterly based on our Leverage Ratio and range from LIBOR +3.25% to LIBOR +3.00%. The revolving credit facility matures on August 31, 2012 with interest payable quarterly at LIBOR + 3.25%. The interest rate on the revolving credit facilities may be adjusted quarterly based on our Leverage Ratio and range from LIBOR +3.25% to LIBOR +2.75%. The revolving credit facility also requires that we pay an annual commitment fee of .5%. The annual commitment fee, based on our Leverage Ratio and ranging from .5% to .375%, is payable quarterly in arrears. The Leverage Ratio is defined as the ratio of (a) consolidated indebtedness to (b) consolidated adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and other adjustments as defined in the agreement). The Leverage Ratio will be calculated quarterly on a pro forma basis that includes the four preceding quarters. The initial Leverage Ratio calculation will be as of December 31, 2006 and cannot exceed the following thresholds over the term of the loan: August 31, 2006 through December 31, 2006 4.75 to 1.00; First six months of Fiscal 2007 4.00 to 1.00; Last six months of Fiscal 2007 3.50 to 1.00; Fiscal 2008 2.50 to 1.0; Fiscal 2009 2.25 to 1.00; Fiscal 2010 through maturity 2.00 to 1.00. The obligations under the senior secured credit facility are guaranteed by us and are secured by a perfected security interest in substantially all of our assets. Financing fees incurred in connection with the credit facility were deferred and are included as a reduction to our long term debt. These fees are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the term loan using the effective interest rate method. The credit facility agreement contains various covenants including limitations on additional indebtedness, capital expenditures, restricted payments, the incurrence of liens, transactions with affiliates and sales of assets. In addition, the credit facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, including maintaining leverage and interest coverage ratios and capital expenditure limitations. We incurred a net loss $27.4 million in 2006 compared to net income of $21.3 million in 2005. The net loss is a result of costs not incurred in 2005, such as: share based compensation of $10.6 million, litigation expense of $2.5 million, amortization of intangible assets of $16.5 million, additional tax expense of $8.9 million and one time acquisition related costs and write off of impaired fixed asset of $2.6 million. In addition, the acquired and assumed CyberGuard and CipherTrust expenses were higher as a percentage of revenue than our prior year stand alone expense rates. Until we are able to establish VSOE on the sales of our CipherTrust product line and our revenue outpaces our operating expenses, including share based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, we expect to generate net losses going forward. As of December 31, 2006, we had $8.7 million in cash and short term investments with no outstanding borrowings on our $20 million revolving credit facility. We generated $36.1 million in cash from operations for the year. We expect to generate cash during 2007 as we expect billings to continue to grow at a faster rate than operating expenses. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the statements of operations of our company expressed as a percentage of revenue: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Products 65 % 73 % 72 % Services 35 27 28 Total revenues 100 100 100 Cost of revenues: Products 18 15 13 Services 7 5 6 Amortization of purchased intangibles 3 Total cost of revenues 28 20 19 Gross profit 72 80 81 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 48 39 44 Research and development 19 15 17 General and administrative 8 7 7 Amortization of purchased intangibles 6 Litigation settlement 1 Total operating expenses 82 61 68 Operating (loss)/income (10 ) 19 13 Other (expense)/income ( ) 2 1 (Loss)/income before tax (10 ) 21 14 Income tax expense (6 ) (1 ) Net (loss)/income (16 %) 20 % 14 % Preferred stock accretion (2 ) Charge from beneficial conversion of preferred stock (7 ) Net (loss)/income applicable to common shareholders (25 %) 20 % 14 % Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Revenue. Our total revenues increased 62% to $176.7 million in 2006, up from $109.2 million in 2005. Our product revenues increased 46% to $115.6 million in 2006, up from $79.3 million in 2005. Our service revenues increased 105% to $61.1 million in 2006, up from $29.8 million in 2005. The increase in total revenues in 2006 was driven by growth across all product categories. Our Network Gateway Security revenue represented 53% of total revenue and an 87% or $43.3 million increase over the prior year. The acquired CyberGuard TSP and Classic product lines contributed $44.7 million. Our Web Gateway Security revenue represented 26% of total revenue and a 46% or $14.6 million increase over the prior year. The acquired Webwasher product line contributed $18.4 million. This increase was slightly offset by a $3.5 million decline in sales of our Bess and Sentian products when these products were discontinued in 2006. Our Identity and Access Management revenue represented 17% of total revenue, which is a 9% increase over the prior year. This increase was driven by sustained demand for high assurance solutions. Messaging Gateway Security revenue, added through the sales of the acquired CipherTrust product lines and represented 4% of total revenue for the full year 2006. Because we are unable to establish VSOE of fair value on the CipherTrust product line revenues, the majority of the revenue from those product lines has been deferred and will be recognized as revenue over the term of the undelivered elements. 32 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit. Total cost of revenues, which includes products and services costs and the amortization of purchased intangibles, increased 124% to $49.2 million in 2006, up from $22.0 million in 2005. This increase is the direct result of the increase in total revenues and the addition of the amortization of purchased intangibles and share based compensation. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased from 80% in 2005 to 72% in 2006. Gross profit for products decreased to 68% in 2006 compared to 79% in 2005. This decline was driven by the amortization of the developed technologies acquired in the CyberGuard and CipherTrust acquisitions and by the increased sales volume on products containing a hardware component, which have a lower gross profit margin than our software products. Gross margins were also reduced as more of our business continues to be transacted with channel partners versus direct to end users. In 2006 sales to our indirect channel partners comprised 81% of total sales versus 73% of total sales in 2005. Gross profit for services was 81% in 2006 compared to 83% in 2005. The decline in the gross profit rate for services was primarily driven by increased customer support costs due to share based compensation and increased headcount and related costs in 2006 compared to 2005. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses consist of selling and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, and non recurring litigation settlement costs. Total operating expenses increased 118% to $145.3 million for 2006, up from $66.8 million in 2005. This increase was driven primarily by increased headcount and related costs as a result of the CyberGuard and CipherTrust acquisitions. To a lesser extent, operating expenses increased as a result of inflationary increases in payroll and related costs, and increases in allocated corporate costs. As a percentage of revenue, total operating expenses were 82% for 2006 compared to 61% in 2005. This increase was primarily driven by the inclusion of costs not incurred in 2005, such as: share based compensation of $9.6 million, amortization of purchased intangibles of $10.6 million, litigation settlement expense of $2.5 million, and one time costs for severance due to acquisition related restructurings, duplicate and one time integration costs, facility move costs and the write off of an asset that was deemed to be fully impaired as a result of our acquisition of CipherTrust of $2.6 million. In addition, the acquired and assumed CyberGuard and CipherTrust expenses were higher as a percentage of revenue than our prior year stand alone expense rates. Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions, share based compensation and benefits related to personnel engaged in selling and marketing functions, along with costs related to advertising, promotions, public relations, travel and allocations of corporate costs, which include information technology, facilities and human resources expenses. Our customer support function, which provides support, training and installation services, is also responsible for supporting our sales representatives and sales engineers throughout the sales cycle by providing them and our prospective customers with technical assistance and, as such, a portion of those costs are included here. Selling and marketing expenses increased 100% to $84.5 million in 2006, up from $42.3 million in 2005. This increase was driven primarily by increased headcount and related costs along with severance for restructurings as a result of the CyberGuard and CipherTrust acquisitions, and to a lesser extent inflationary increases in payroll and related costs, share based compensation costs, the write off of an asset that was deemed fully impaired as a result of the CipherTrust acquisition and inflationary increases in allocated corporate costs. As a percentage of revenue, selling and marketing expenses were 48% in 2006 compared to 39% in 2005. This increase was driven by one time costs for our acquisitions, share based compensation costs, and in addition, the acquired and assumed CyberGuard and CipherTrust expenses were higher as a percentage of revenue than our prior year stand alone expense rates. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, share based compensation and benefits for our product development and advanced technology personnel and allocations of corporate costs, which include information technology, facilities and human resources expenses. Research and development expenses increased 103% to $34.1 million in 2006, up from $16.8 million in 2005. This increase was driven primarily by increased headcount and related costs as a result of the CyberGuard and CipherTrust acquisitions and to a lesser extent inflationary increases in payroll and related costs, share based compensation costs, and inflationary increases in allocated corporate costs. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses were 19% for the year compared to 15% in 2005. This increase was driven by share based compensation costs and in addition, the acquired and assumed CyberGuard and CipherTrust expense rates were higher as a percentage of revenue than our prior year stand alone expenses. 33 Table of Contents General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, share based compensation, benefits and related expenses for our executive, finance and legal personnel, directors and officers insurance and allocations of corporate costs, which include information technology, facilities and human resources expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 89% to $13.6 million in 2006, up from $7.2 million in 2005. This increase was driven primarily by increased headcount and related costs as a result of the CyberGuard and CipherTrust acquisitions, legal fees, and to a lesser extent inflationary increases in payroll and related costs, share based compensation costs, audit fees, and inflationary increases in allocated corporate costs. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were 8% in 2006 compared to 7% in 2005. This increase was primarily due to duplicate costs incurred for the transitional employees due to the acquisitions. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets. Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists of the amortization of tradenames and customer lists acquired in the CipherTrust and CyberGuard acquisitions, described in Note 2 and 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively, and to a lesser extent the N2H2 acquisition in 2003. Amortization of these acquired tradenames and customer lists was $10.6 million, or 6% of revenue, in 2006 compared to $496,000, or less than 1% of revenue, in 2005. This increase is due to the additional intangibles acquired in the CyberGuard and CipherTrust acquisitions. Share Based Compensation Expense. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. Share based compensation expense related to stock options, restricted stock and shares purchased under our ESPP under SFAS 123(R) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was allocated as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2006 Cost of product revenues $ 357 Cost of service revenues 567 Selling and marketing 5,260 Research and development 2,542 General and administrative 1,830 Total share based compensation expense $ 10,556 There was no share based compensation expense recognized for the year ended December 31, 2005. Litigation Settlement. Litigation settlement expense of $2.5 million pertains to a charge related to litigation brought by the landlord of our former Concord, CA office. This expense represents a judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $1.1 million and additional costs of $1.4 million we incurred related to damages. The settlement was paid in July 2006. Other (Expense)/Income. Other expense was $120,000 in 2006 as compared to other income of $1.6 million in 2005. The decrease is primarily a result of incurred interest expense related to debt assumed for the CipherTrust acquisition and a decrease in interest income on a decreased average cash balance. Income Taxes. During 2006, we recorded income tax expense of $9.5 million. Of this $9.5 million income tax expense, a non cash expense of $8.5 million is related to a net tax valuation allowance recorded on our net deferred tax assets. We were unable to benefit from the initial release of valuation allowance on utilized acquired net operating losses, and needed to provide tax expense for the subsequent valuation allowance reapplied to the remaining net operating losses. This was a result of changes in circumstances due to recent acquisitions that caused a change in judgment regarding the realizability of our net deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter. The remainder of the income tax expense is related to current income tax components such as, alternative minimum income tax, and state and foreign income taxes. This is compared with $608,000 of income tax expense recorded in 2005 which consisted of $349,000 for alternative minimum tax expense, $58,000 for state income tax expense and $201,000 for various foreign income tax expenses. 34 Table of Contents Federal alternative minimum tax was provided on the portion of our alternative minimum taxable income which could not be entirely offset by the alternative tax net operating loss deduction carryforward which we have available. Similar to 2006, we anticipate that we will be in an alternative minimum taxable income position in 2007. Current tax law provides that part or all of the amount of the alternative minimum tax paid can be carried forward indefinitely and credited against federal regular tax in future tax years to the extent the regular tax liability exceeds the alternative minimum tax in those years. For 2006, the reversal of $3.1 million of the tax valuation allowance related to acquired net operating losses was recorded as a decrease to goodwill in the balance sheet and not as a benefit to tax expense in the income statement. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, we have assessed the likelihood that the net deferred tax assets will be realized. SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires the consideration of a valuation allowance in all circumstances, if the conclusion is not more likely than not a valuation allowance is required. We have determined that it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets of $24.4 million at December 31, 2006 will be realized based on our expected future reversals of certain deferred tax liabilities. We have a net deferred tax liability recorded in our balance sheet that consists primarily of indefinite lived intangible assets that are not deductible for tax purposes and therefore cannot be used to realize additional reversing deferred tax assets. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, our remaining noncurrent deferred tax liabilities are netted with our noncurrent deferred tax assets and are presented as a single amount in our consolidated balance sheet. Worldwide net operating loss carryforwards totaled approximately $479.5 million at December 31, 2006, comprised of $456.6 million domestic net operating loss carryforwards and $22.9 million of international net operating loss carryforwards. These carryforwards are available to offset taxable income through 2026 and will start to expire in 2011. Of these carryforwards, $208.1 million relates to acquired CyberGuard net operating losses, $59.6 million relates to acquired N2H2 net operating losses, and $19.4 million relates to acquired CipherTrust net operating losses. We have provided a complete valuation allowance on primarily all of these acquired losses are fully valued against, and upon release of the valuation allowance, a portion of the benefit will go to the balance sheet to reduce goodwill instead of a benefit to the income tax provision. As of December 31, 2006 we have deducted $56.8 million related to stock option exercises. The tax benefit in excess of book expense from these stock option exercises will be recorded as an increase to additional paid in capital upon utilization of the net operating losses under the financial statement approach to recognizing the tax benefits associated with stock option deductions. Of the remaining benefit associated with the carryforwards, approximately $111.3 million has yet to be recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. However, there are no assurances that the tax benefit of these carryforwards will be available to offset future income tax expense when taxable income is realized. As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we reached a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service regarding all assessments proposed with respect to the CipherTrust federal income tax return for 2004. The Internal Revenue Service has commenced its examination of CipherTrusts federal income tax returns for 2003 and 2005. In our opinion, the final resolution of these audits will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. We anticipate the completion of these field audits during 2007. Estimates were used in the determination of our provision for income taxes, current income taxes payable, as well as in our deferred tax asset and liability analysis. These estimates take into account current tax laws and our interpretation of these current tax laws within the various taxing jurisdictions within which we operate. Changes in the tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of future audits could impact our provision for income taxes. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Revenues. Our total revenues increased 17% to $109.2 million in 2005, up from $93.4 million in 2004. Our product revenues increased 17% to $79.3 million in 2005, up from $67.6 million in 2004. Our service 35 Table of Contents revenues increased 16% to $29.8 million in 2005, up from $25.8 million in 2004. The increase in total revenues in 2005 was driven by growth across all product lines. Our Network Gateway Security revenue (formerly known as the Sidewinder G2 Firewall product line) increase was due to increased demand for our security appliance. Our Web Gateway Security revenue (formerly known as the Web filtering product line) increase was due to continued traction through OEM relationships. The Identity and Access Management revenue (formerly known as the SafeWord product line) increase was driven by sustained demand for high assurance solutions. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit. Total cost of revenues, which includes products and services costs, increased 27% to $22.0 million in 2005, up from $17.4 million in 2004. This increase is the direct result of the increase in total revenues. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased from 81% in 2004 to 80% in 2005. Gross profit for products decreased to 79% in 2005 compared to 82% in 2004. This decline was driven by increased sales volume on products containing a hardware component, primarily the SafeWord token sales, which have a lower gross profit margin than our software products. Gross margins were also reduced as a result of a larger portion of business being transacted with channel partners versus direct to end users in 2005 as compared to 2004. Gross profit for services was 83% in 2005 compared to 80% in 2004. The improvement in the gross profit rate for services was primarily driven by our services revenue growth outpacing the growth of our services costs in 2005 compared to 2004. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses consist of selling and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Total operating expenses increased 5% to $66.8 million for 2005, up from $63.8 million in 2004. This increase was driven primarily by an inflationary increase in payroll and related costs and inflationary increases in corporate costs. As a percentage of revenue, total operating expenses were 61% for 2005 compared to 68% in 2004. This improvement was primarily driven by revenue growth outpacing the growth of operating expenses during 2005 compared to 2004. Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions, and benefits related to personnel engaged in selling and marketing functions, along with costs related to advertising, promotions, public relations, travel and allocations of corporate costs, which include information technology, facilities and human resources expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 3% to $42.3 million in 2005, up from $41.2 million in 2004. This increase was driven primarily by inflationary increases in payroll and related costs, an increase in commission expense due to expanding revenues, and inflationary increases in allocated corporate costs. As a percentage of revenue, selling and marketing expenses were 39% in 2005 compared to 44% in 2004. This improvement was primarily driven by revenue growth outpacing the growth of selling and marketing expenses during 2005 compared to 2004. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and benefits for our product development personnel and allocations of corporate costs, which include information technology, facilities and human resources expenses. Research and development expenses increased 5% to $16.8 million in 2005, up from $16.1 million in 2004. This increase was driven by inflationary increases in payroll, benefits and allocated corporate costs. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses were 15% for the year compared to 17% in 2004. This improvement was primarily driven by revenue growth outpacing the growth of research and development expenses during 2005 compared to 2004. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and related expenses for our executive, finance and legal personnel, directors and officers insurance and allocations of corporate costs, which include information technology, facilities and human resources expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 11% to $7.2 million in 2005, up from $6.5 million in 2004. This increase was driven primarily by an increase in audit and legal fees, inflationary increases in allocated corporate costs, and to a lesser extent, inflationary increases in payroll and benefits. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were 7% in both 2005 and 2004. This rate remained consistent compared to prior year, despite the increase in our general and administrative expenses, due to revenue growth being consistent with the growth of general and administrative expenses in 2005 compared to 2004. 36 Table of Contents Other Income. Other income was $1.6 million in 2005, an increase from $607,000 in 2004. The increase reflects higher interest rates on higher cash balances in 2005 as compared to 2004. Income Taxes. We incurred tax expenses of $608,000, consisting of $349,000 for U.S. Federal alternative minimum tax expense, $58,000 for state income tax expense, and $201,000 for various foreign income taxes, in 2005 compared to no tax expense recognized in 2004. Federal alternative minimum tax was provided for in 2005 on the portion of our alternative minimum taxable income which could not be entirely offset by the alternative tax net operating loss deduction carry forward which we have available. This is in accordance with applicable tax law. The tax position provided for in the income tax provisions prior to 2005 did not include alternative minimum taxable income. Tax expense of $283,000 incurred for various foreign income taxes and $62,000 incurred for state income tax in 2004 was offset by the reversal of a like amount of the previously established valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset. We have assessed the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be realized. The computations of our deferred tax assets and valuation allowance are based on taxable income we expect to earn on sales of existing products, and projected interest and other income over the next three years. Realization of the $3.6 million of net deferred tax assets is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income and the implementation of tax planning strategies. We have determined that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized based on expected levels of future taxable income in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Our expectations regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions, changes in tax laws and other factors. Future taxable income of $9.4 million is required to realize the $3.6 million deferred tax asset at December 31, 2005. We had total net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $177.7 million at December 31, 2005. Of these carryforwards, $49.9 million relates to stock option exercises and $59.6 million relates to acquired N2H2 net operating losses, which currently have a full valuation allowance, and when realized for financial statement purposes will not result in a reduction in income tax expense. Rather, the benefit from the stock option exercises will be recorded as an increase to additional paid in capital and the benefit from the N2H2 net operating loss carryforwards will be recorded as a decrease to goodwill. Of the remaining benefit associated with the carryforwards, approximately $58.8 million have yet to be recognized as a benefit in the consolidated statement of operations. However, there are no assurances that these carryforwards will be available to offset future income tax expense when taxable income is realized. Deferred taxes are required to be measured at the regular tax rate. An analysis recently completed of our regular tax rate, indicated that our tax rate had changed. Accordingly the deferred tax components, including the valuation allowance, were adjusted as a result of applying the appropriate rate. The deferred tax components include the benefit of the alternative tax credit carry forward. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the tax effect of these items in 2005. Estimates were used in the determination of our provision for income taxes, current income taxes payable, as well as in our deferred tax asset and liability analysis. These estimates take into account current tax laws and our interpretation of these current tax laws within the various taxing jurisdictions within which we operate. Changes in the tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of future audits could impact our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2006, our principal source of liquidity was $8.2 million of cash, representing a $41.8 million decrease from December 31, 2005. Our investments decreased $30.7 million from $31.1 million at December 31, 2005 to $457,000 at December 31, 2006. These decreases were primarily due to $95.0 million in cash paid directly by us to CipherTrust shareholders for the CipherTrust acquisition, $18.9 million in cash paid directly by us to CyberGuard shareholders for the CyberGuard acquisition, offset by $36.1 million provided by operating activities and $8.1 million from the exercise of stock options and sale of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). At December 31, 2006, we have future payments of $138.5 million on our debt commitment and net future payments under non cancelable operating leases of $23.2 million. We expect to generate cash during 2007 as we expect billings to continue to grow at a faster rate than operating expenses. 37 Table of Contents Last year we financed our operations primarily with cash generated from operations, as well as through sales of our equity securities and borrowings on our credit facility. In 2006, we utilized and paid back $8.5 million on our $20.0 million revolving credit facility. Net cash provided by operating activities of $36.1 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, was comprised of $41.8 million in net non cash related expenses, a $43.9 million increase in deferred revenue, and a $8.4 million increase in accounts payable and accrued payroll offset by a $27.4 million net loss, a $12.1 million increase in accounts receivable, a $4.3 million decrease in accrued expenses and a $14.3 million decrease in acquisition reserves. Net cash provided by operations was driven by the increase in our billings outpacing the increase in our operating expenses. Terms for cash collections received from customers and cash payments made to vendors were consistent with normal business practices. Net cash used in investing activities of $239.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, consisted of a $187.7 million cash outlay for the acquisition of CipherTrust, $69.1 million cash outlay for the acquisition of CyberGuard, and $11.8 million for capital additions, net of $31.0 million in cash received from net sales/maturities of investments. The capital additions were used for furnishing our new St. Paul, Minnesota facility, computer equipment and technology upgrades. Net cash provided by financing activities of $163.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 consisted primarily of $84.9 million received from debt financing, net of transaction fees of $3.1 million and a principal repayment of $2.0 million, which was used to finance the CipherTrust acquisition, $69.9 million received from the issuance of preferred stock, net of transaction fees, which was used to finance the CyberGuard acquisition, and $8.1 million related to the exercise of stock options and sale of common stock through our ESPP. We anticipate using available cash to fund growth in operations, invest in capital equipment, acquire businesses, license technology or products related to our line of business, and make additional payments on our long term debt. We expect to spend approximately $12.0 million on capital expenditures in 2007. A summary of our total contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2006 is as follows (in thousands): Total Payments Due by Period Less ThanOne Year One toThree Years Three toFive Years After FiveYears Operating leases, net of subleases $ 23,233 $ 5,264 $ 7,419 $ 4,196 $ 6,354 Principal and interest payments on debt $ 138,509 $ 7,730 $ 16,290 $ 16,877 $ 97,612 Total contractual cash obligations $ 161,742 $ 12,994 $ 23,709 $ 21,073 $ 103,966 We believe that we have sufficient financial resources available to fund our current working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. In addition to the cash on hand, we have a $20.0 million revolving credit facility available pursuant to a credit facility agreement with a syndicate of banks led by Citigroup and UBS Investment Bank which was signed in August 2006. We intend to utilize the funds available through the credit facility for general working capital and ongoing corporate purposes as deemed necessary. Our credit facility agreement contains various covenants including limitations on additional indebtedness, capital expenditures, restricted payments, the incurrence of liens, transactions with affiliates and sales of assets. In addition, the credit facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, on a quarterly basis, including maintaining leverage and interest coverage ratios and capital expenditure limitations. We are in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2006. Disclosures about Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. 38 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion of the financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Management regularly reviews its estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical factors and other factors that are believed to be relevant under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions, estimates, or conditions. Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies. Revenue Recognition. We derive our revenue primarily from two sources: (i) sales of products, including hardware, subscriptions, software licenses, and royalties and (ii) sales of services, including maintenance arrangements to provide upgrades and customer support, professional services, and contracted development work. We recognize revenue in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as modified by SOP 98 9. Revenue from products is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed and determinable, and collection is probable. Subscription based contracts are generally for 12, 24 or 36 months in duration. Subscription revenue along with maintenance revenue for providing product upgrades and customer support are deferred and recognized ratably over the service period beginning with the month the subscription or service begins. When arrangements contain multiple elements and vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for all undelivered elements, we recognize revenue for the delivered elements using the residual method. For arrangements containing multiple elements where VSOE of fair value does not exist for all undelivered elements, we defer revenue for the delivered and undelivered elements and then recognize revenue on all elements over the service period. In instances where an entire arrangement is deferred due to lack of VSOE of fair value on an undelivered element, the revenue recognized over the service period is allocated to products and services revenue based on the value of the elements as presented on the customers purchase order which approximates an allocation proportionate to our list price. We also identify costs (primarily hardware component costs) that are directly associated with product revenues that have been deferred due to lack of VSOE of fair value on an undelivered element and we defer these costs at the time of shipment and recognize them as cost of sales in proportion to the product revenue as it is recognized over the service term. We sell our products either directly to an end user, or indirectly through our channel of resellers and distributors (our channel partners). When selling through our channel we require our channel partners to provide evidence of end user sell through. If we are unable to obtain end user evidence at the time we fulfill the order from a channel partner, we do not recognize revenue until the channel partner supplies end user information, the product has been shipped, and all other criteria of SOP 97 2 have been met, with the exception of sales to our distributors who stock our SnapGear product line. We recognize revenue, net of estimated returns, upon shipment of our SnapGear product line as we have sufficient return history to establish a reserve and we are not able to receive end user evidence due to the high volume sales of this low price point product. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We make estimates regarding the collectibility of our accounts receivables. When we evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider multiple factors including historical write off experience, the need for specific customer reserves, the aging of our receivables, customer creditworthiness, changes in our customer payment cycles, and current economic trends. Historically, our allowance for doubtful accounts has been adequate based on actual results. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. 39 Table of Contents Business Combinations. When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price requires management to make significant estimates in determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, especially with respect to intangible assets. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies. These estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. We assess the impairment of goodwill annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of our reporting unit to its carrying value, including the goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. To determine our reporting units fair value in the current year evaluation, we used a valuation technique based on multiples of revenue. If managements estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other assumptions, the estimate of the fair value of our goodwill could change significantly. Such change could result in goodwill impairment charges in future periods, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. We assess the impairment of acquired developed technology and other identifiable intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an assets carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount. Such impairment loss would be measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value. Our cash flow assumptions are based on historical and forecasted revenue, operating costs, and other relevant factors. If managements estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other assumptions, the estimate of the fair value of our acquired developed technology and other identifiable intangible assets could change significantly. Such change could result in impairment charges in future periods, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Deferred Tax Assets. We account for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. SFAS No. 109 requires the consideration of a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some component or all of the benefits of deferred tax assets will not be realized. Share Based Compensation. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for share based employee compensation plans under the measurement and recognition provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. Accordingly, we recorded no share based employee compensation expense for options granted under our current stock option plans during the year ended December 31, 2005 as all options granted under those plans had exercise prices equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. We also recorded no compensation expense in those periods in connection with our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) as the purchase price of the stock was not less than 85% of the lower of the fair market value of our common stock at the beginning of each offering period or at the end of each purchase period. In accordance with SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, we provided pro forma net income and net income per share disclosures for each period prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, as if we had applied the fair value based method in measuring compensation expense for our share based compensation plans. 40 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), using the modified prospective transition method. Under that transition method, we recognized compensation expense for share based payments that vested during the year ended December 31, 2006 using the following valuation methods: (a) for share based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 1, 2006, the grant date fair value was estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and (b) for share based payments granted on or after January 1, 2006, the grant date fair value was estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Because we elected to use the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, Share Based Payment, which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS No. 123(R). We have applied the provisions of SAB No. 107 in our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). We estimate the fair value of stock options granted and the discount offered through our ESPP using the Black Scholes model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions. See Note 10 for information on the impact of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the assumptions we use to calculate the fair value of share based employee compensation. In addition, we began offering restricted shares in 2006 and we intend to continue to do so in the future. Derivative Instrument. In September 2006, we entered into an interest rate cap agreement which is required to be accounted for under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. It requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments at fair value. If certain conditions are met, a derivative may be specifically designated as (a) a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, (b) a hedge of the exposure to variable cash flows of a forecasted transaction, or (c) a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, an unrecognized firm commitment, an available for sale security, or a foreign currency denominated forecasted transaction. Our interest rate cap agreement applies to (b), referred to as a cash flow hedge. For a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge the effective portion of the derivatives gain or loss is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is immediately recognized in income. Inflation To date, we have not been significantly affected by inflation. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of SFAS No. 109. FIN 48 creates a single model to address accounting for uncertainty in tax positions and clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. Specifically under FIN 48, the tax benefits from an uncertain tax position may be recognized only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based upon the technical merits of the position. FIN 48 also provides guidance on de recognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. As prescribed in the interpretation, the cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48 will be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at January 1, 2007. We will adopt FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007 as required. We are currently evaluating the potential impact which the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, clarifies the 41 Table of Contents definition of fair value within that framework, and expands disclosures about the use of fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is intended to increase consistency and comparability among fair value estimates used in financial reporting. As such, SFAS No. 157 applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require (or permit) fair value measurements, except for the measurement of share based payments. SFAS No. 157 does not apply to accounting standards that require (or permit) measurements that are similar to, but not intended to represent, fair value. Fair value, as defined in SFAS No. 157, is the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability and therefore represents an exit price, not an entry price. The exit price is the price in the principal market in which the reporting entity would transact. Further, that price is not adjusted for transaction costs. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. SFAS No. 157 will be applied prospectively as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which it is initially applied. We are currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 157. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We develop products in the U.S., Australia, and Germany and sell them worldwide. As a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. Since our sales are currently priced in U.S. dollars, a strengthening of the dollar could make our products less competitive in foreign markets and our accounts receivable more difficult to collect. We believe that our international entities are subject to risks typical of any international entity, including, but not limited to: differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. We are exposed to market risk from changes in the interest rates on certain outstanding debt. As of December 31, 2006, we had $88.0 million of outstanding indebtedness. Of this indebtedness, approximately $28.0 million bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing interest rates. Based on the average outstanding debt for fiscal 2006, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would change interest expense by approximately $300,000 in fiscal 2007. We also hold an equity interest in a privately held technology company. This investment was recorded at cost and is reported in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2006 this investment had a carrying value of $2.7 million. 
</SECTION>
