<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: ADVENT SOFTWARE INC /DE/
CIK: 0001002225
SIC: 7371
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The following discussion contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended, including, but not limited to statements referencing our expectations relating to future revenues, expenses and operating margins. Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, continue or other similar terms and the negative of such terms regarding beliefs, plans, expectations or intentions regarding the future. Forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding growth in the investment management market and opportunities for us related thereto, future expansion, acquisition, divestment of or investment in other businesses, projections of revenues, future cost and expense levels, expected timing and amount of amortization expenses related to past acquisitions, the adequacy of resources to meet future cash requirements, estimates or predictions of actions by customers, suppliers, competitors or regulatory authorities, future client wins, future hiring and future product introductions. Such forward looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different from any results or performance expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10 K, as well as other risks identified from time to time in other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports. You should not place undue reliance on our forward looking statements, as they are not guarantees of future results, levels of activity or performance and represent our expectations only as of the date they are made. Unless expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us, the Company and Advent refer to Advent Software, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Overview We offer integrated software solutions for automating and integrating data and work flows across the investment management organization, as well as the information flows between the investment management organization and external parties. Our products are intended to increase operational efficiency, improve the accuracy of client information and enable better decision making. Each solution focuses on specific mission critical functions of the front, middle and back offices of investment management organizations and is tailored to meet the needs of the particular client, as determined by size, assets under management and complexity of the investment environment. During fiscal 2006, we: Expanded customer relationships and acceptance of our product offerings. During 2006, we signed 346 new customer agreements and experienced continued strong demand for both our newest and largest portfolio management and accounting platforms: Advent Portfolio Exchange (APX) and Geneva, respectively. We sold 63 APX licenses bringing the total number of licenses sold to 84 for a 32 product that has been generally available for just over a year. We also achieved a significant milestone with Geneva as we added 34 new Geneva clients during fiscal 2006, compared to 17 new customers in 2005, bringing the total number of Geneva licenses sold to over 100 as of December 31, 2006. Released new products. We introduced several product upgrades and enhancements: APX 1.5, which delivers expanded scalability and enhanced integration of relationship and portfolio management features. APX 1.5 enables asset managers and single or multi family offices the ability to provide enhanced client service in a single solution, thus reducing the cost and complexity of managing multiple systems; Geneva 6.0, which provides a lower total cost of ownership through reduced hardware costs, ease of integration with enhanced third party accelerators, and improved scalability through technology enhancements; Moxy 5.2, which offers increased scalability and enables higher trade volume execution; Advent Partner 6.0, which enables hedge funds and fund administrators to use a single solution for both onshore and offshore investor servicing and accounting; and GIFTS 6.1, which is a follow on upgrade on MicroEdges GIFTS 6 grant making software, and includes the ability to automate and schedule the creation and delivery of GIFTS reports; a wide range of compatibility certifications not previously available; single sign on support for GIFTS Connections; and background scheduling of database maintenance. Increased term license bookings. In 2006, we signed a total of $48.8 million of term licenses, versus $22.7 million in 2005. Increased headcount. Total company headcount at December 31, 2006 was 824 which represented an increase of 88 new employees, or 12%, from December 31, 2005. The majority of these new hires were in our sales and services groups, and to a lesser extent in product development. Term License Transition We are in the process of converting our software licensing model from a perpetual model to a term model for our Advent Investment Management segment. Under a perpetual model, customers purchase a license to use our software indefinitely and generally we recognize all license revenue at the time of sale; maintenance is purchased under an annual renewable contract, and recognized ratably over the contract period. Under a term model, customers purchase a license to use our software and receive maintenance for a limited period of time and we recognize the revenue ratably over the length of the contract. The transition to a term model has the effect of lowering license revenues in the early stages of the transition, but increasing the total potential value of the customer relationship. Moving our core business new customer sales to term has had the effect of lowering our revenue growth in 2006 and may continue to slow our revenue growth over the next several years when compared to a perpetual license model. The transition to a term model also has the effect of decreasing our operating cash flows in the early stages of the transition. Under perpetual pricing, the entire license fee is generally billed and collected at the commencement of the arrangement. Under term pricing, a typical contract term is three years. We generally bill and collect license fees over the term of the arrangement in equal installments in advance of each annual period. The amount of the annual term billing is less than the perpetual billing, resulting in lower cash flows in the initial term license period. Annual term billing results in an increase in deferred revenues and an increase in operating cash flows at the commencement of each annual billing period. 33 When a customer purchases a term license together with implementation services we do not recognize any revenue under the contract until the implementation services are complete. If the implementation services are still in progress as of a quarter end, we will defer all of the contract revenues to a subsequent quarter. As of December 31, 2006, we have deferred $9.4 million in net revenues and $2.9 million of directly related expenses (which are classified as deferred revenues and prepaid expenses and other, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheet) as the implementation services associated with the related term license arrangements were in progress as of December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $1.1 million of net revenues and $0.4 million of directly related expenses, respectively, were deferred. Although the transition to a term model decreases revenues from new contracts in the early periods, we believe this change to our business model is extremely significant for the long term growth and value of the business because it leverages the mission critical nature of Advents products and services. We believe that once our products are implemented, our clients are motivated to continue using Advents products and services due to improved workflow efficiencies and additional controls they gain over their core business operations. The following table (unaudited) summarizes the term license bookings (in thousands) and associated average term (in years) by quarter for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004: First Second Third Fourth Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Total 2006 Bookings(1) $ 7,864 $ 12,872 $ 10,600 $ 17,474 $ 48,810 Average Term(2) 2.5 3.1 2.9 3.2 3.0 2005 Bookings(1) $ 6,378 $ 3,967 $ 4,924 $ 7,464 $ 22,733 Average Term(2) 4.7 2.9 3.3 2.7 3.2 2004 Bookings(1) $ 71 $ 296 $ 4,492 $ 1,443 $ 6,302 Average Term(2) 1.4 1.7 3.7 2.8 3.2 (1) Bookings reflect the total value of all new term licenses signed by clients in the period. (2) Average term is weighted by contract value for all new term licenses signed in the period. Financial Highlights We recognized record revenues of $184.1 million during 2006, as compared to $168.7 million in fiscal 2005 and $150.0 million in 2004. The year over year increase in 2006 reflects essentially flat license revenues due to our transition to term licenses, while our maintenance and recurring revenues were up $19.7 million or 18% year over year. Despite our transition to a predominantly term licensing model, we have grown net revenue year over year for two reasons: Our diverse mix of products has allowed us to phase in term licensing by product; and We have a large installed base of customers that we are not requiring to convert to term licenses when they expand the usage (e.g. order additional seats) of products they already own. During 2006, we recognized approximately 49% of license revenue from term licenses and incremental AUA fees versus 25% in 2005. Total recurring revenues, which we define as term license, incremental AUA fees, term and perpetual maintenance, and other recurring revenues, have increased to 79% of total revenues during 2006, as compared to 69% during 2005. Total expenses, including cost of revenues, were $184.4 million in fiscal 2006, compared with $162.4 million in 2005 and $168.1 million in 2004. Our expenses increased in 2006 from 2005 largely as a result of increases in headcount, stock based compensation expense of $13.6 million (or 7.4% of total net revenues) and a $1.7 million increase in restructuring charges and, to a lesser extent, higher bonuses based 34 on strong bookings performance and additional costs resulting from winding down the soft dollar component of Second Street Securities. During 2006, we incurred restructuring charges of $3.7 million primarily relating to the exit of our previous headquarters facility. To accommodate our expansion and headcount growth, we moved our San Francisco headquarters in October 2006 from our prior facility located at 301 Brannan Street to a new facility located at 600 Townsend Street. As a result of completely exiting our former headquarters facility and making it available for sub lease in November 2006, we incurred facility and exit costs of $3.4 million related to the 301 Brannan facility that will continue to be incurred without economic benefit to us. The costs associated with stock based compensation and restructuring, which totaled approximately $17.3 million (or 9% of total net revenues) for fiscal 2006, had a significant adverse impact on our results of operations, resulting in an operating loss of $0.3 million compared to operating income of $6.3 million in fiscal 2005. During the first quarter of 2006, we began to wind down the soft dollar component of our SEC registered broker/dealer subsidiary, Second Street Securities, as it no longer fits with our corporate strategy. Second Street Securities offered our customers the ability to pay for Advent products and other third party services through brokerage commissions and other fee based arrangements. We completed the wind down in the fourth quarter of 2006. Subsequent to the wind down, Second Street Securities will continue to maintain its broker/dealer status. During 2006, we recognized a benefit from income taxes of $79.0 million due primarily to the release of the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets originally established in the fourth quarter of 2003 as we now believe that our deferred tax assets are more likely than not be realized. We earned net income of $82.6 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $2.70 for 2006. In addition, we generated operating cash flow of approximately $46.8 million in 2006. During 2006, we repurchased 4.7 million shares under our Board authorized share repurchase plans, for a total cash outlay of $148.6 million and an average price of $31.68. Looking forward, we continue to focus on improving our long term profitability as we complete the transition to a term license model. While recent economic trends have been positive and our customers have been more willing to commit to new software purchases, improving our profitability will depend upon our introducing new products, licensing software to new and existing customers, selling services to new and existing customers and renewing license, maintenance and recurring revenue contracts at similar levels to those which we achieved during fiscal 2006. The success of our transition to a term license model will also depend on future renewal rates, which we will evaluate as our term license contracts expire. We will continue our focus on aggressively managing costs and will also continue to invest in areas we deem appropriate. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements and related notes, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process we use to develop estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other information that we believe are reasonable for making judgments at the time the estimates are made. Actual results may differ from our estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions. 35 We believe the following accounting policies contain the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Goodwill Revenue recognition and deferred revenues Income taxes Stock based compensation Restructuring charges and related accruals Impairment of long lived assets Legal contingencies Sales returns and accounts receivable allowances Goodwill. We review our goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year (as of November 1) and more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment loss has occurred. We are required to test our goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we had three reporting units as of November 1, 2006. The test for goodwill impairment is a two step process. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its respective carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of our reporting unit is considered not impaired, thus the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. The second step, used to measure the amount of impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of each reporting units goodwill with the respective carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is subjective and requires judgment at many points during the test including the development of future revenue and expense forecasts used to calculate future cash flows, the selection of risk adjusted discount rates, and determination of market comparable entities. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed our annual impairment test which did not indicate impairment for any of our reporting units. Revenue recognition and deferred revenues. Our revenue recognition policies contain our most significant judgments and estimates. Our revenue policy is further described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements. We recognize revenue from software licenses, development fees, maintenance, other recurring revenues, professional services and other revenues. We offer a wide variety of products and services to a large number of financially sophisticated customers. While many of our lower priced license transactions, maintenance contracts, subscription based transactions and professional services projects conform to a standard structure, many of our larger transactions are complex and may require significant judgment in the application of generally accepted accounting principles. Software license and development fees. We recognize revenue from the licensing of software when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. We generally use a signed license agreement as evidence of an arrangement. Sales through our distributors are evidenced by a master agreement governing the relationship together with binding order forms and signed contracts from the distributors customers. Revenue is recognized once shipment to the distributors customer has taken place and when all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Delivery occurs when product is delivered 36 to a common carrier F.O.B shipping point. Some of our arrangements include acceptance provisions, and if such acceptance provisions are provided, delivery is deemed to occur upon acceptance. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. We also assess whether the collectibility of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured based on a number of factors, including the credit worthiness of the customer determined through review of credit reports, our transaction history with the customer, other available information and pertinent country risk if the customer is located outside the United States. Our standard payment terms are due at 180 days or less, unless the transaction was part of a soft dollar arrangement through our in house broker/dealer subsidiary, Second Street Securities, for which payment was then required within one year; however, payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Software licenses are sold with maintenance and, frequently, professional services. Licenses: We have continued the transition from selling mostly perpetual licenses to selling a mix of perpetual and term contracts, and expect term license revenue to increase as a proportion of total license revenue in the future. We recognized approximately 49%, 25% and 11% of license revenue from term licenses and incremental AUA fees during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Revenue recognition for software licensed under perpetual and term based license models differs depending on which type of contract a customer signs: Perpetual licenses We allocate revenue to delivered components, normally the license component of the arrangement, using the residual method, based on vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value of the undelivered elements (generally the maintenance and professional services components), which is specific to us. We determine the fair value of the undelivered elements based on the historical evidence of the Companys stand alone sales of these elements to third parties. If VSOE of fair value does not exist for any undelivered elements, then the entire arrangement fee is deferred until delivery of that element has occurred. Term licenses Term license contract prices include both the software license fees and maintenance fees, and, as a result, we allocate 55% of the contract price to license revenue and 45% to maintenance and recurring revenues, based on our assessment of the relative economic value of the two elements. We used our judgment in determining the allocation of revenues for term license contracts. We believe our methodology provides the best estimate of the gross margins of our revenue streams. Our assessment of the relative economic value is based on an analysis of the revenue stream that could be expected from a perpetual license and associated maintenance renewals over a three year term, which is the length of most of our term licenses with bundled maintenance. As a percentage of the total term arrangement fee, the maintenance component was calculated to be approximately 45% of the overall arrangement fee over a three year period. To date, we have offered multi year term licenses by which a customer makes a binding commitment to license the software for a fixed multi year term typically three years. For multi year term licenses, we have not established VSOE of fair value for the term license and maintenance components, and, as a result, in situations where we are also performing related professional services, we defer all revenue and directly related expenses under the arrangement until the professional services are substantially complete. At the point professional services are substantially completed, we recognize a pro rata amount of the term license and maintenance revenue, professional services fees earned and related expenses, based on the elapsed time from the start of the term license to the substantial completion of professional services. The remaining deferred professional services revenue and related expenses are recognized ratably over the remaining contract length. Term license and maintenance revenue for the remaining contract years is recognized ratably over the remaining period 37 of the contract. When multi year term licenses are sold and do not include related professional services, we recognize the entire term license and maintenance revenue ratably over the period of the contract term from the effective date of the license agreement assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Certain of our perpetual and term license contracts contain fee structures that provide additional revenues based on the assets that the client manages using our software (Assets Under Administration or AUA). Contracts containing an AUA fee structure have a defined measurement period which requires the client to self report actual AUA in arrears of the specified period. AUA fees above the stated minimum fee for the same period are considered incremental fees. Because incremental fees are not determinable until the conclusion of the measurement period, they are both earned and recognized in arrears, on a quarterly or annual basis. If a customer purchased our software and chose to enter into a soft dollar arrangement through our in house broker/dealer subsidiary, Second Street Securities, the soft dollar arrangement did not change or modify the original fixed or determinable fee in the written contract. The customer is required to pay the original fee for our software within one year. If insufficient trading volume is generated to pay the entire original fee within one year, the customer is still required to render payment within one year. If the customer chooses to use a third party broker/dealer, the original payment terms apply, regardless of the arrangement with the third party broker/dealer. The option to soft dollar a transaction does not alter the underlying revenue recognition for the transaction; all the revenue recognition criteria listed in the Software license section above must be assessed in determining how the revenue will be recognized. Maintenance and other recurring revenues. We offer annual maintenance programs that provide for technical support and updates to our software products. Maintenance fees are bundled under perpetual licenses in the initial licensing year and charged separately for renewals of annual maintenance in subsequent years. Fair value for maintenance is based upon renewal rates stated in the contracts or, in limited cases, separate sales of renewals to other customers. Generally, we recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the contract term, except in the case of multi year term license contracts which are described in the term licenses section above. Revenues from term licenses represented approximately 6%, 3% and 1% of maintenance and other recurring revenue during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We offer other recurring revenue services that are either subscription based or transaction based, and primarily include the provision of software interfaces to, and the capability to download securities information from, third party data providers. We recognize revenue from recurring revenue transactions either ratably over the subscription period or as the transactions occur. Professional services and other revenues. We offer a variety of professional services that include project management, implementation, data conversion, integration, custom report writing and training. Fair value for professional services is based upon separate sales of these services by us to other customers. Our professional services are generally billed based on hourly rates together with reimbursement for travel and accommodation expenses. Our professional services and other revenue also include revenue from our annual client conferences. We recognize revenue as these professional services are performed except in the case of multi year term license contracts which are described in the term licenses section above. Certain professional services arrangements involve acceptance criteria. In these cases, revenue and directly related expenses are deferred and then recognized upon acceptance. Directly related expenses. When we defer service revenues, we also defer the direct costs incurred in the delivery of those services to the extent those costs are recoverable through the future revenues on non cancelable contracts. We recognize those deferred costs as costs of professional services revenues proportionally and over the same period that the deferred revenue is recognized as service revenue. When we defer license revenue, we defer the direct incremental costs incurred as a result of selling the contract (i.e. sales commissions earned by the salesforce as a part of their overall compensation) because those 38 costs would not have been incurred but for the acquisition of that contract. We recognize those costs as sales and marketing expense proportionally and over the same period as the license revenues. Income taxes. We account for worldwide income taxes under an asset and liability approach that requires the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between book and tax bases of assets and liabilities be recognized as deferred tax assets and liabilities. Significant judgment is required to determine our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Many of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenue and expense that have differing or preferential tax treatment and segregation of foreign and domestic income and expense to the appropriate taxing jurisdictions to reasonably allocate earnings. Although we believe that our judgments and estimates are reasonable, the final outcome could be different from that which is reflected in our income tax provision and accruals. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the net deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the jurisdiction where the tax asset is located. We consider forecasted earnings, future taxable income and prudent and reasonable tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the return is filed and the tax implication is known. We are subject to audits by state, federal and foreign tax authorities. Our estimates for potential outcome for any uncertain tax matter are judgmental. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However, our future results may include adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. Stock based compensation. The adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006 had a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. See Note 9, Stock Based Compensation, to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion regarding our stock based compensation including pro forma disclosures for prior periods as if we had recorded stock based compensation expense. The calculation of stock based compensation requires reliance on significant assumptions, judgments and estimates. Management judgment was required in the initial selection and implementation of policies to conform with the requirements of SFAS 123R. Management elected to adopt the standard using the modified prospective method, to utilize the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of expense and to recognize the stock based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the service period. Had management selected other implementation, valuation or recognition methodologies, the presented result could vary significantly. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options, stock appreciation rights (SAR) and employee stock purchase plan shares. The fair value of our restricted stock units is calculated based on the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. The determination of the fair value of stock based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee exercise behavior, the risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We use an external service provider to assist us in making reasonable estimates. 39 We estimate the volatility of our common stock based on an equally weighted average of historical and implied volatility of the Companys common stock. We determined that a blend of historical and implied volatility is more reflective of the market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using purely historical volatility. We estimate the expected life of options and SARs granted based on historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms of the stock based awards, vesting schedules and expectations of future employee behavior. We base the risk free interest rate on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for periods corresponding with the expected life of the option and SAR. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore use an expected dividend yield of zero in the option pricing model. SFAS 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on the Companys historical experience over the last ten years. These variables are sensitive and change on a daily basis. As a result, the financial result from issuing the same number of options or SARs can vary over significantly over time. The following table reflects the change in the fair value of a hypothetical option or SAR as a result of a hypothetical change in the underlying assumptions: Assumption Value Assumption Value Assumption Base Case Change Change Change Change Grant and stock price $ 35.00 +$1 $ 0.35 $1 $ (0.35 ) Risk free interest rate 4.5 % +0.5% $ 0.23 .0.5% $ (0.23 ) Volatility 45.0 % +5% $ 1.12 5% $ (1.15 ) Expected life (years) 5.0 + 1 year $ 0.70 1 year $ (0.91 ) Expected dividend yield 3.0 % +1% $ (1.04 ) 1% $ 1.12 Base Option Value $ 12.30 Restructuring charges and related accruals. Since 2003, we have developed and implemented formalized plans for restructuring our business to better align our resources to market conditions and recorded significant charges. In connection with these plans, we recorded estimated expenses for severance and benefits, lease cancellations, asset write offs and other restructuring costs. Given the significance of, and the timing of the execution of such activities, this process is complex and involves periodic reassessments of estimates made at the time the original decisions were made, including evaluating real estate market conditions for expected vacancy periods and sub lease rents. We continually evaluate the adequacy of the remaining liabilities under our restructuring initiatives. Although we believe that these estimates accurately reflect the costs of our restructuring plans, actual results may differ, thereby requiring us to record additional provisions or reverse a portion of such provisions. Impairment of long lived assets. We review our other long lived assets including property and equipment and other intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Determining whether an impairment trigger has occurred is subjective and requires judgment. Our recoverability test compares the assets carrying amount to their expected future undiscounted net cash flows. We estimate future revenue and expense amounts to calculate future cash flows. We believe our forecast revenue and expense amounts are reasonable but forecast amounts are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Legal Contingencies. From time to time, Advent is involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. We use our judgment to assess both the likelihood and potential amount of a contingency. We periodically review our assessment whenever there is a change in the facts and circumstances of these proceedings. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and our view of these matters may change in the future. Were an unfavorable outcome to occur, there exists the possibility 40 of a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations for the period in which the unfavorable outcome occurs, and potentially in future periods. Sales Returns and Accounts Receivable Allowances. Our standard practice is to enforce our contract terms and not allow our customers to return software. We have, however, allowed customers to return software on a limited case by case basis and have recorded sales returns provisions as offsets to revenue in the period the sales return becomes probable. We use our judgment in estimating our sales returns. We analyze customer demand and acceptance of product and historical returns when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for sales returns, which are not generally provided to customers. Specifically, we have an algorithm for calculating the value of reserves that takes the last 18 months of experience into account, which resulted in the above adjustments to revenue. Our ability to estimate returns is based on our long history of experience with relatively homogenous transactions and the fact that the return period is short. The estimates for returns are adjusted periodically based upon changes in historical rates of returns and other related factors. We have recorded a sales returns provision (benefit) to decrease (increase) revenue for these situations based on our historical experience of $(0.8) million, $2.2 million and $4.6 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We use our judgment in estimating our allowance for doubtful accounts. In order to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts, we analyze specific accounts receivable, historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer credit worthiness, current economic trends and changes in its customer payment terms. We have recorded a provision for (reduction of) bad debt of $1.0 million, $(0.4) million and $36,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation to better reflect our view of the current business. These reclassifications do not affect total net revenues, net income (loss), cash flows, or stockholders equity. 41 Results of Operations for Fiscal Years 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes, for the periods indicated, certain items in the consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net revenues. The financial information and the ensuing discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Fiscal Years 2006 2005 2004 Net revenues: License and development fees 21 % 23 % 24 % Maintenance and other recurring 69 64 63 Professional services and other 10 13 13 Total net revenues 100 100 100 Cost of revenues: License and development fees 1 1 1 Maintenance and other recurring 18 17 19 Professional services and other 13 11 11 Amortization and impairment of developed technology 1 2 4 Total cost of revenues 32 31 35 Gross margin 68 69 65 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 27 24 26 Product development 19 18 22 General and administrative 18 20 18 Amortization and impairment of other intangibles 2 2 8 Restructuring charges 2 1 3 Total operating expenses 68 65 77 Income (loss) from operations (0 ) 4 (12 ) Interest income and other expense, net 2 3 1 Gain on sale of equity investments 2 Income (loss) before income taxes 2 9 (11 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (43 ) 1 0 Net income (loss) 45 % 8 % (11 )% NET REVENUES 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Total net revenues $ 184,093 $ 168,701 $ 149,990 Change over prior year $ 15,392 $ 18,711 Percent change over prior year 9 % 12 % Our net revenues are made up of three components: license and development fees; maintenance and other recurring; and professional services and other. License revenues are derived from the licensing of software products. Maintenance and other recurring revenues are derived from maintenance fees charged in the initial licensing year, renewals of annual maintenance services in subsequent years and recurring revenues derived from our subscription based or transaction based services. Term license contract prices 42 include both the software license fees and maintenance fees, and, as a result, we allocate 55% of the contract price to license revenue and 45% to maintenance and recurring revenues, based on our assessment of the relative economic value of the two elements. Professional services and other revenues include fees for consulting, training services, commission revenues from soft dollaring of third party products and services and our client conferences. Each of the major revenue categories has historically varied as a percentage of net revenues, and we expect this variability to continue in the near term. This variability is partially due to the timing of the introduction of new products, the relative size and timing of individual perpetual software licenses, as well as the size of the implementation, the resulting proportion of the maintenance and professional services components of these license transactions and the amount of client use of pricing and related data. We are currently transitioning the majority of our license revenue to term license agreements. Once our transition to term licensing is complete, we expect less variability between our major categories of revenues because the variation from large perpetual license deals will decrease. Net revenues increased in 2006 and 2005 due to growing information technology spending by our customers, as well as a general increase in demand for many of our products and services. The increases reflected improving economic conditions and growth in the financial markets. The year over year growth in net revenues included large increases in term license, maintenance and recurring revenues, as well as increased revenue from international sales. These increases were partially offset by decreases in perpetual license revenues and professional services and other revenues attributable to our continued transition to a term license sales model. After adverse economic conditions negatively impacted revenues across the industry in 2002 and 2003, the economy stabilized in 2004 and has continued to strengthen into 2005 and 2006, resulting in shorter sales cycles, growing investment in information technology projects, and a general increase in expenditures for software related services. Going forward, we expect normal seasonal weakness to impact revenues and bookings in the first quarter of 2007, followed by modest growth as the year progresses resulting in total net revenues for fiscal 2007 of between $206 million and $211 million. International sales, which are based on the location to which the product is shipped, also contributed to our growth in 2006 and 2005, representing 12% of our net revenues in 2006, compared to 11% in 2005 and 9% in 2004. We expect revenue growth in EMEA in 2007 to be consistent with our overall revenue growth. The revenues from customers in any single international country did not exceed 10% of total revenues. License and Development Fees 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) License and development fees $ 38,205 $ 39,166 $ 35,665 Percent of net revenues 21 % 23 % 24 % Change over prior year $ (961 ) $ 3,501 Percent change over prior year (2 )% 10 % The increase in license and development fee revenues in 2006 and 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily reflected the improving economic and industry conditions resulting in increased capital spending by our customers as well as increased acceptance of our APX and Geneva products. However, the decrease in 2006 as compared to 2005 is a direct result of the transition to selling our core products under a term model where license revenue is amortized over the term of the contract, as opposed to being recognized up front with perpetual contracts. Perpetual license revenue decreased $11.8 million to $18.9 million during fiscal 2006 compared to $30.6 million in 2005, and decreased $2.9 million in 2005 compared with $33.5 million in 2004. Revenue recognized from term license contracts and incremental AUA fees increased $9.3 million to $18.8 million, or 49% of license revenue, during fiscal 2006, as compared to $9.6 million, or 25% 43 of license revenue, during fiscal 2005, and $3.9 million or 11% of license revenue in 2004. Term contract sales have the effect of lowering recognized license revenues in the short term, but we believe increase the total potential long term value of the customer relationship. We continue to sign more contracts on a term basis as term license bookings increased from $6.3 million in fiscal year 2004, to $22.7 million and $48.8 million in fiscal 2005 and 2006, respectively. Improving financial markets in these periods resulted in a more favorable business climate as our customers were more willing to commit to new software purchases as well as existing customer upgrades. For each of the periods presented, the Axys, APX, Moxy, Partner, Qube, Geneva and GIFTS products accounted for the majority of license revenue, both term and perpetual. License and development fee revenues in 2006 also reflected an increase in Geneva related assets under administration (AUA) revenues and, as previously mentioned, increasing term license revenues as our transition to a term model continued. Our AUA revenues from incremental AUA fees increased by $1.6 million during 2006 as a result of the growth in assets under administration of certain fund administration clients, whose Geneva contracts provide for incremental fees based on assets under administration, resulting in significant recurring quarterly and annual revenue. We typically license our products on a per server, per user basis with the price per customer varying based on the selection of the products licensed, the number of site installations, the number of authorized users, the size of the customer and the customers line of business. Our pricing can vary in different market segments to maintain our competitive position. We earn development fees when we provide product solutions that are not part of our standard product offering but that will be incorporated into our future releases. For fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, revenue from development fees was 1.0%, 1.8% and 3.4% of total license and development fees revenue. Soft dollar revenues generated by Second Street Securities from Advent related licenses paid for through soft dollar transactions in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $0.8 million, $0.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and represented 2.0%, 1.8% and 2.6% of total license and development fee revenues. Due to the winding down of our soft dollar component during fiscal 2006, we do not expect to recognize soft dollar revenues through Second Street Securities in fiscal 2007. We expect license and development fees revenues to be up significantly in amount and as a percentage of total net revenues in 2007 as we have reached the turning point in our transition to a term model and expect to grow license revenues compared to 2006 due principally to continued bookings of both term and some perpetual licenses and recognition of term license revenue deferred in prior years. As we sell more products on a term license model, we defer a greater portion of license revenue over the term of the contract, instead of recognizing the license revenue up front. The net effect, assuming most customers renew their contracts upon expiration of the initial term, is to build a long term license and maintenance stream and also enhance predictability of license revenues. Maintenance and Other Recurring Revenues 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Maintenance revenues $ 88,766 $ 73,269 $ 65,338 Other recurring revenues 38,231 34,051 29,760 Total maintenance and other recurring revenues $ 126,997 $ 107,320 $ 95,098 Change over prior year $ 19,677 $ 12,222 Percent change over prior year 18 % 13 % The increases in maintenance and other recurring revenues in 2006 and 2005 reflected an increase in new maintenance support contracts as a result of the increase in the number of new license contracts, price increases and service level upgrades to our installed customer base, an increase in demand for our data 44 services and an increase in our recurring revenue sharing. We disclose our maintenance renewal rate one quarter in arrears. The maintenance renewal rate for the third quarter of 2006 of 92% which is the highest it has been for the last three years. Maintenance revenues increased by $15.5 million and $7.9 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, reflecting an increase in new maintenance support contracts as a result of the increase in the number of new license deals (both perpetual and term) and price increases to our installed customer base. Perpetual maintenance revenue increased $10.6 million or 15% over the prior year reflecting the annual increase in maintenance pricing and up selling to higher value maintenance plans. Term maintenance increased $4.9 million or 168% over fiscal 2005 reflecting the continued success of the term model for Geneva, APX, Partner and Moxy products. Recurring revenues increased by $4.2 million and $4.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily reflecting increased revenue from our Advent Custodial Data services. Maintenance revenue has remained relatively flat as a proportion of total maintenance and recurring revenues at approximately 68% to 70% for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, and we expect this percentage to be consistent in 2007. We expect that maintenance and recurring revenues will continue to increase in 2007, but at a slower rate than in 2006 which experienced 18% growth, due to the volume of new contracts, a historically high contract renewal rate, and expected price increases in 2007, partially offset by normal attrition within our existing customer base. Professional Services and Other Revenues 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Professional services and other revenues $ 18,891 $ 22,215 $ 19,227 Percent of net revenues 10 % 13 % 13 % Change over prior year $ (3,324 ) $ 2,988 Percent change over prior year (15 )% 16 % Professional services and other revenues include consulting, project management, custom integration, custom work, training and soft dollar transactions for products and services not related to Advent product or services. Professional services projects related to Axys, Moxy and Partner products generally can be completed in a two to six month time period, while services related to Geneva and APX products may require a four to nine month implementation period. The decrease in professional services and other revenues of $3.3 million in 2006 was primarily attributable to the net deferral of professional services revenue for services performed on term license implementations. When services are performed with term license implementations, service revenue is deferred until the implementation is complete. Then service revenues are recognized over the remaining license term. We have experienced an increase in implementation services after the launch of our APX product and the sales success of our Geneva product, which are sold under a term license model. There were more term license implementation projects in progress as of December 31, 2006 compared with the prior year, and as a result there was a significant increase in the deferral of professional services revenue. We deferred net professional services revenues of approximately $5.7 million in 2006 as compared to $1.0 million in 2005. In addition, revenues earned from third party products paid for through soft dollar transactions decreased due to fewer transactions as we completed the wind down of the soft dollar component of Second Street Securities in the fourth quarter of 2006. The increase in professional services and other revenues of $3.0 million in 2005 was primarily due to a general increase in the volume of consulting and training services demanded as a result of higher license sales. 45 We expect that professional services and other revenues will increase in 2007 as we expect to add more billable headcount to support project implementation growth, and we expect to recognize revenue from 2006 term deals upon completion of implementation during 2007. Revenues by Segment 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands) Advent Investment Management $ 162,609 $ 145,897 $ 130,358 MicroEdge 21,182 20,026 16,967 Other 302 2,778 2,665 Total $ 184,093 $ 168,701 $ 149,990 We have two reportable segments: Advent Investment Management (AIM) and MicroEdge. AIM derives revenues from the development, marketing and sale of software products, data interfaces and related maintenance and services that automate, integrate and support certain mission critical functions of investment management organizations. MicroEdge derives revenues from the sale of software and services for grant management, gifts matching and volunteer tracking for the grant making community. See Note 12, Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements. The 11% and 12% increases in AIMs revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, reflected the improved economic conditions and growth in the financial markets, as well as the continued focus on selling our Axys, APX, Moxy, Partner and Geneva products. AIMs revenue increases in 2006 and 2005 also reflected an increase in new maintenance support contracts as a result of new license deals, up selling existing customers to higher value maintenance plans and price increases for maintenance contracts from our installed customer base, partially offset by attrition from within our existing installed customer base. We also had growth in international sales in both periods, partly attributable to our acquisitions of distributor businesses in the UK and Switzerland in May 2004. Our assets under administration revenues increased by $1.6 million and $2.7 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, as a result of the growth in assets under administration for our fund administration clients, where certain Geneva contracts provide for fees based on assets under administration, resulting in significant recurring revenue. The technology spending patterns of organizations in MicroEdges primary markets (independent foundations, community foundations and corporations) are directly affected by economic fluctuations as foundation budgets are largely driven by endowment income. Given that endowments often contain market exposed components, they are significantly affected by the economy. For instance, foundation spending decreases in an economic downturn. Community foundations are subject to similar influences, compounded by the fact that in many cases much of their ongoing funding and endowment comes from active donors who may increase or reduce their giving depending on the economic climate and the related effect on their income and wealth. Corporations typically fund charitable activities from operating budgets, and the allocation to charitable donations and supporting company charitable operations is often closely tied to a companys performance. Thus, corporate philanthropy and spending on related technology are correlated with company and overall economic performance. The 6% increase in MicroEdge revenues in fiscal 2006 primarily reflected an increase in maintenance revenues due to price increases and continued strong customer retention. The 18% increase in MicroEdge revenues in fiscal 2005 reflected the improved economic conditions and growth in the financial markets which resulted in increased charitable contributions. The increase in charitable contributions received by the foundations sector in these periods enabled foundations to increase their information technology expenditures which resulted in the increase in MicroEdge revenues. 46 The revenue decrease in our Other segment in fiscal 2006 primarily resulted from the winding down of the soft dollar component of our broker/dealer subsidiary. COST OF REVENUES 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Total cost of revenues $ 58,802 $ 51,797 $ 52,955 Percent of net revenues 32 % 31 % 35 % Change over prior year $ 7,005 $ (1,158 ) Percent change over prior year 14 % (2 )% Our cost of revenues is made up of four components: cost of license and development fees; cost of maintenance and other recurring; cost of professional services and other; amortization and impairment of developed technology; and stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2006. Cost of License and Development Fees 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of license and development fees $ 1,539 $ 1,400 $ 2,138 Percent of total license revenues 4 % 4 % 6 % Change over prior year $ 139 $ (738 ) Percent change over prior year 10 % (35 )% Cost of license and development fees consists primarily of royalties and other fees paid to third parties, the fixed direct labor involved in producing and distributing our software, labor costs associated with generating development fees and cost of product media including duplication, manuals and packaging materials. The increase in costs during 2006 was primarily due to increase in payroll related expenses and higher utilization of outside contractors. Payroll related expenses increased by $94,000 due to an additional employee in the department during fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. Higher utilization of outside services also contributed to $57,000 of the increase during 2006. The decrease in 2005 reflected decreased outside service costs, and shipping and related product demo costs. In absolute dollars, we expect cost of license and development fees in 2007 to be slightly higher compared with 2006. Cost of Maintenance and Other Recurring 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of maintenance and other recurring $ 32,246 $ 29,499 $ 27,820 Percent of total maintenance and other recurring revenue 25 % 27 % 29 % Change over prior year $ 2,747 $ 1,679 Percent change over prior year 9 % 6 % Cost of maintenance and other recurring revenues is primarily comprised of the direct costs of providing technical support and other services for recurring revenues and royalties paid to third party vendors for subscription or transaction based revenues. The increase of $2.7 million in 2006 was due primarily to an increase in compensation and related costs of $2.6 million, respectively, resulting from an increase in stock based compensation costs and headcount. Specifically, stock based compensation costs of $972,000 were recognized during fiscal 2006 primarily as a result of implementing SFAS 123R effective 47 January 1, 2006 and issuing restricted stock units (RSU) compared with zero in 2005. Payroll related expenses increased by $1.6 million as a result of an increase in headcount from 186 at December 31, 2005 to 206 at December 31, 2006. Consistent with the increase in headcount, travel expenses and recruiting costs increased by $551,000 during 2006. This increase was offset by a decrease in royalty expense of $0.4 million for 2006. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to increased compensation expense of $1.2 million associated with higher headcount during 2005 and royalty expense of $0.5 million. We expect cost of maintenance and other recurring revenues in 2007 to increase significantly compared with 2006 to support higher maintenance and other recurring revenue growth. Cost of Professional Services and Other 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of professional services and other $ 23,817 $ 18,323 $ 16,526 Percent of total professional services revenues 126 % 82 % 86 % Change over prior year $ 5,494 $ 1,797 Percent change over prior year 30 % 11 % Cost of professional services and other revenue consists primarily of personnel related costs associated with the client services and support organization in providing consulting, custom report writing and conversions of data from clients previous systems. Also included are direct costs associated with third party consultants and travel expenses. The increase in 2006 primarily reflects the higher costs from payroll and related expenses, higher utilization of outside services, recruiting expenses, and travel costs. Payroll related expenses increased by $2.8 million during 2006 as a result of an increase in headcount and stock based compensation. As a result of the increases in our license transactions and customer base in 2006, we have increased headcount in our client services and consulting groups to 125 at December 31, 2006 from 96 at December 31, 2005. Consistent with the increase in headcount, recruiting costs increased by $396,000 during fiscal 2006. Stock based compensation costs of $788,000 were recognized during 2006, compared with zero in 2005. Higher utilization of outside services, including third parties to assist in our professional service projects, also contributed to $420,000 of the increase during 2006. In addition, travel expenses increased by $1.1 million due to travel associated with more professional service projects. These cost increases were partially offset by larger net deferrals of professional services costs under SOP 97 2 related to services performed on term license implementations. We have experienced an increase in implementation services with the launch of our APX product and sales of our Geneva product, which are principally sold under the term license model. As there were more term license implementation projects in progress as of December 31, 2006 compared to the prior year, we have experienced an increase in the deferral of professional service costs. We deferred net professional services costs of $2.3 million during 2006 compared to $0.4 million in 2005. Gross margins for 2006 were negatively impacted by our deferral of professional services revenues and costs under SOP 97 2, as we defer only the direct costs associated with services performed on term license arrangements. As a result, indirect costs such as management and other overhead expenses are recognized in the period in which they are incurred, with no revenue to offset them. In addition, we have added headcount in both our client services and consulting groups. Since these new employees undergo a training period typically of six months before becoming fully billable, their associated costs have a near term negative impact on margins. Gross margin for 2006 was also negatively impacted by $0.6 million of write offs and reserves incurred in the first quarter of 2006 associated with third party products paid through soft dollar transactions. Excluding the effects of our deferrals and the headcount increases, we forecast a 5 10% 48 gross margin on our professional services. However, we presently expect our deferrals and headcount increases to negatively affect our professional services gross margins for at least the next twelve months. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to higher compensation expense of $1.2 million as a result of our incurring a full year of payroll expense from additional headcount related to our acquisitions of distributor businesses in the United Kingdom and Switzerland in May 2004, and additional costs of $0.5 million from our annual user conference. We anticipate cost of professional services and other revenues in 2007 to increase significantly (but at a slower rate than revenue) over 2006 as we expect to add headcount to support an increased number of implementations, the majority of which will be sold on a term basis. Amortization and Impairment of Developed Technology 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Amortization and impairment of developed technology $ 1,200 $ 2,575 $ 6,471 Percent of net revenues 1 % 2 % 4 % Change over prior year $ (1,375 ) $ (3,896 ) Percent change over prior year (53 )% (60 )% Amortization and impairment of developed technology represents amortization and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets, and amortization of capitalized software development costs. During 2004, we recorded non cash impairment charges totaling $1.3 million. This amount included $1.0 million to write off Techfi core and existing technology resulting from our decision to sunset certain products within our Techfi product line and $0.3 million to write off Advent Wealth Services (AWS) acquired technology resulting from significant underperformance by AWS relative to historical and projected future operating results as well as our decision to re focus our strategic direction on our core businesses. The decrease in amortization of developed technology in fiscal 2005 and 2006 also reflected technology related intangible assets from prior acquisitions becoming fully amortized during fiscal 2005 and 2006. We expect amortization of developed technology to be approximately flat in 2007. OPERATING EXPENSES Sales and Marketing 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 50,177 $ 40,269 $ 38,893 Percent of net revenues 27 % 24 % 26 % Change over prior year $ 9,908 $ 1,376 Percent change over prior year 25 % 4 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary, stock based compensation and benefits of personnel involved in our sales and marketing function, sales commissions, advertising and promotional materials, sales facilities expense, trade shows, and seminars. The increase in expense for 2006 was primarily due to stock based compensation expense of $4.8 million (or 2.6% of total net revenues). We incurred approximately $0.6 million of bad debt expense during 2006 associated with the winding down of our soft dollar component. Travel expense and marketing expense increased by $963,000 and $866,000, respectively, during 2006. Payroll related expenses increased by $1.0 million during 2006 due to higher bonus and incentive awards resulting from strong bookings performance, a headcount increase from 149 at 49 December 31, 2005 to 162 at December 31, 2006, and the allocation of IT personnel costs as certain IT employees were working on projects specifically relating to the sales and marketing function. The increase in 2005 was attributable to increased compensation expenses of $2.4 million due to higher commissions and bonus expense associated with higher levels of revenue. Marketing expenses increased $0.5 million primarily as a result of our APX product launch. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $1.0 million in bad debt and royalty expenses and $0.6 million in outside services associated with decreased utilization of external consultants. We expect sales and marketing expenses in 2007 to increase in dollar amount and remain relatively flat as a percentage of total net revenues compared with 2006 as we increase marketing activities in support of product launches and add to our salesforce. Product Development 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Product development $ 34,859 $ 30,446 $ 32,260 Percent of net revenues 19 % 18 % 22 % Change over prior year $ 4,413 $ (1,814 ) Percent change over prior year 14 % (6 )% Product development expenses consist primarily of salary, stock based compensation and benefits for our development staff as well as contractors fees and other costs associated with the enhancements of existing products and services and development of new products and services. The increase in product development expense in 2006 was primarily due to stock based compensation expense of $3.1 million (or 1.6% of total net revenues). In addition, payroll and other related costs increased by $1.7 million during 2006 as a result of an increase in headcount. We capitalized $1.5 million of software development costs in both fiscal 2006 and 2005. The decrease in 2005 was due primarily to the capitalization of software development costs of $1.5 million during 2005. In fiscal 2005, we had several major products, including APX, in their final beta phase. The remaining decrease in product development expense in 2005 was due to lower compensation expense as a result of lower headcount from restructuring activities in 2003 and 2004. We expect product development expenses to increase in dollar amount in 2007 as we make investments in headcount to support new product development. General and Administrative 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 32,936 $ 33,773 $ 26,576 Percent of net revenues 18 % 20 % 18 % Change over prior year $ (837 ) $ 7,197 Percent change over prior year (2 )% 27 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salary, stock based compensation and benefits for finance, administration, operations and general management, as well as legal and accounting expenses. During 2006, we allocated payroll and related costs for certain IT personnel to sales and marketing expense and cost of professional services as these IT employees were working on projects specifically relating to these functions. The overall fluctuations were also attributable to a decrease in legal 50 fees of $2.8 million in 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 which included costs for various legal disputes. A decrease in depreciation expense of $0.8 million for 2006 also contributed to the overall decrease in general and administrative expense which primarily resulted from assets being fully depreciated in 2005. Outside service costs decreased by $902,000 in 2006 as fewer external consultants were used during the current year. These decreases were offset by an increase in stock based compensation expense of $4.0 million (or 2.2% of total net revenues) during 2006, and an increase in rent expense of approximately $1.1 million. We entered into a definitive lease agreement in January 2006 for our new headquarters facility located at 600 Townsend Street in San Francisco, California and since then we incurred rent expense at both 600 Townsend and our prior headquarters facility located at 301 Brannan Street for the majority of fiscal 2006 which resulted in higher rent expense for 2006. The increase of $7.2 million in 2005 was primarily due to higher legal and professional fees of $4.0 million, payroll and related costs of $2.5 million, outside service costs of $1.2 million and computer and telecom expense of $1.0 million, partially offset by decreased facility expense of $1.2 million. The increase in professional fees was primarily due to an increase in legal fees of $1.8 million for various inquiries and disputes, including our ongoing litigation with the former shareholders of Kinexus, costs of $1.0 million to settle the claims of certain former members and employees of Advent Outsource Data Management, and additional accounting costs of $1.4 million for our year end audit of financial statements and internal controls and other associated compliance costs. The increase in personnel and related costs of $2.5 million in 2005 was primarily due to severance for terminated employees and a full year of payroll expense from additional headcount related to our acquisitions of our remaining independent distributor businesses in the United Kingdom and Switzerland in May 2004. The increase in outside services of $1.2 million was primarily due to costs associated with increased utilization of outside contractors. These increases in general and administrative expenses during 2005 were partially offset by decreased facility expense as a result of our restructuring activities to reduce excess office space. We expect general and administrative expenses to be approximately flat in dollar amount but to decrease as a percentage of total net revenues in 2007 compared with 2006. Amortization and Impairment of Other Intangibles 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Amortization and impairment of other intangibles $ 3,866 $ 4,041 $ 12,237 Percent of net revenues 2 % 2 % 8 % Change over prior year $ (175 ) $ (8,196 ) Percent change over prior year (4 )% (67 )% Amortization and impairment of other intangibles represents amortization and impairment of our non technology related intangible assets. During 2004, we recorded non cash impairment charges totaling $4.1 million. This amount included $2.4 million to write off the carrying value of Techfi non compete agreements and maintenance contracts resulting from our decision to sunset certain products within our Techfi product line, and $0.4 million and $1.4 million to write off the carrying value of AWS and Advent Hellas customer relationships and trademarks, respectively, as a result of significant underperformance by AWS and Advent Hellas relative to historical and projected future operating results, as well as our decision to re focus our strategic direction on our core businesses. The decrease in amortization and impairment of other intangibles in 2006 and 2005 also was a result of intangible assets from prior acquisitions becoming fully amortized during fiscal 2005 and 2006. We expect amortization of other intangibles to be approximately $1.9 million in 2007. 51 Restructuring Charges 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Restructuring charges $ 3,735 $ 2,039 $ 5,133 Percent of net revenues 2 % 1 % 3 % Change over prior year $ 1,696 $ (3,094 ) Percent change over prior year 83 % (60 )% Restructuring initiatives have been implemented in our AIM and Other operating segments to reduce costs and improve operating efficiencies by better aligning our resources to near term revenue opportunities. These initiatives have resulted in restructuring charges comprised primarily of costs related to properties abandoned in connection with facilities consolidation, related write down of leasehold improvements and severance and associated employee termination costs related to headcount reductions. Our restructuring charges included accruals for estimated losses on facility costs based on our contractual obligations net of estimated sublease income. We reassess this liability periodically based on market conditions. For fiscal 2006, we recorded total restructuring charges of $3.7 million which primarily related to facility and exit costs associated with the relocation of our corporate headquarters facility in San Francisco during the fourth quarter of 2006. Restructuring charges in 2006 also included costs associated with exiting a portion of our facility in New Rochelle, New York, and our entire facility in Summit, New Jersey, and adjustments to original estimates for facilities in San Francisco, California and New York, New York. For fiscal 2005, we recorded total restructuring charges of $2.0 million consisting of facility and exit costs of $1.5 million related to the sub leasing of one floor of the Companys office in New York, New York and additional charges of $567,000 during 2005 primarily to adjust original estimates of facility maintenance expenses and real estate taxes of vacated facilities. For fiscal 2004, we recorded total restructuring charges of $5.1 million consisting of $5.0 million to exit leased facilities, $0.9 million for the write off of property and equipment, $136,000 for severance and benefits associated with the termination of nine employees, and net benefits of $893,000 to adjust original estimates for vacated facilities and severance charges. We continued to consolidate office space during 2004 and incurred charges of $4.9 million for facility and exit costs and $0.9 million of property and equipment impairment charges related to vacating a facility in San Francisco, California, and $78,000 to vacate a portion of a facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We estimated the cost of exiting the facility leases based on the contractual terms of the agreements and real estate market conditions. During the year, we entered into sublease agreements on vacated facilities in San Francisco and New York, and recorded accretion expense to adjust the present value of lease obligations on vacated facilities at December 31, 2004, resulting in a net adjustment to our original estimates of $794,000. During the year we also incurred charges of $136,000 for severance and benefits related to the termination of nine employees located primarily in New York, and reversed $99,000 of severance and benefits primarily related to employees terminated in 2003, as costs were lower than previously anticipated. 52 The following table sets forth an analysis of the components of the restructuring charges and the payments and non cash charges made against the accrual during fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 (in thousands): Property & Facility Exit Severance and Equipment Costs Benefits Abandoned Total Balance of restructuring accrual at December 31, 2003 $ 2,181 $ 164 $ $ 2,345 Restructuring charges 5,027 136 863 6,026 Reversal of deferred rent related to facilities exited 272 272 Cash payments (2,529 ) (189 ) (2,718 ) Non cash charges (863 ) (863 ) Adjustment of prior restructuring costs (794 ) (99 ) (893 ) Balance of restructuring accrual at December 31, 2004 $ 4,157 $ 12 $ $ 4,169 Restructuring charges 1,472 1,472 Reversal of deferred rent related to facilities exited 703 703 Cash payments (2,351 ) (2,351 ) Adjustment of prior restructuring costs 572 (5 ) 567 Balance of restructuring accrual at December 31, 2005 $ 4,553 $ 7 $ $ 4,560 Restructuring charges 3,549 3,549 Reversal of deferred rent related to facilities exited 666 666 Cash payments (2,370 ) (2,370 ) Adjustment of prior restructuring costs 189 (3 ) 186 Balance of restructuring accrual at December 31, 2006 $ 6,587 $ 4 $ $ 6,591 Of the remaining restructuring accrual of $6.6 million at December 31, 2006, $2.7 million and $3.9 million are included in accrued liabilities and other long term liabilities, respectively. The accrued excess facility costs of $6.6 million are stated at estimated fair value, net of estimated sub lease income of $7.8 million. We expect to pay the remaining obligations in connection with vacated facilities over the remaining lease terms, which will expire on various dates through 2012. We do not anticipate incurring significant restructuring charges in 2007. Operating Income (Loss) by Segment 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands) Advent Investment Management $ 14,921 $ 9,599 $ (74 ) MicroEdge 5,361 2,979 675 Other (1,902 ) 374 43 Unallocated corporate operating costs and expenses: Stock based compensation (13,596 ) Amortization and impairment of developed technology (1,200 ) (2,575 ) (6,471 ) Amortization and impairment of other intangibles (3,866 ) (4,041 ) (12,237 ) Total $ (282 ) $ 6,336 $ (18,064 ) Our AIM segment improved its operating income to $14.9 million in 2006 from $9.6 million in 2005. This improvement reflects an increase in AIM revenues of $16.7 million offset by an increase in payroll and related costs due to the increase in headcount from 651 employees at December 31, 2005 to 735 employees at December 31, 2006. Our AIM segment improved its operating income to $9.6 million in 2005 from an operating loss of $74,000 in 2004. This improvement reflects an increase in AIM revenues of 53 $15.5 million offset by higher general and administrative costs including higher legal and professional fees relating to various inquiries and disputes including our ongoing litigation with the former shareholders of Kinexus, costs to settle the claim of former members and employees of Advent Outsource Data Management, and accounting costs associated with our year end audit and compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. MicroEdges operating income increased by $2.4 million in 2006 due to decreased marketing costs and outside services cost associated with lower utilization of outside contractors. MicroEdges operating income increased by $2.3 million in 2005 as a result of revenue growth of $3.1 million partially offset by increased recruiting costs and higher outside services cost associated with increased utilization of outside contractors. Operating losses for our Other segment increased by $2.3 million in 2006 due to a decrease in revenue and higher costs associated with the winding down of our soft dollar component in 2006. See Note 12, Segment and Geographical Information, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our segments. Interest Income and Other Expense, net 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income and other expense, net $ 3,853 $ 4,596 $ 1,905 Percent of net revenues 2 % 3 % 1 % Change over prior year $ (743 ) $ 2,691 Percent change over prior year (16 )% 141 % Interest income and other, net consists of interest income, realized gains and losses on investments and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease in interest income for 2006 was a result of our lower aggregate cash and short term investment balance, as we liquidated part of our investment portfolio to fund our stock repurchase activity in fiscal 2006. The increase in 2005 was primarily attributable to an increase in interest income of $1.8 million as a result of higher average interest rates and interest bearing cash balances. Interest income and other expense, net for fiscal 2004 also reflects our pro rata share of loss on our equity method investment of $257,000. We expect interest income and other expense, net to be in the range of $3.0 million to $4.0 million for fiscal 2007, excluding the impact from stock repurchases which we may undertake. Gain on Sale of Equity Investments 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Gain on sale of equity investments $ $ 3,608 $ Percent of net revenues 0 % 2 % 0 % Change over prior year $ (3,608 ) $ 3,608 Percent change over prior year (100 )% 0 % Gain on sale of equity investments includes realized gains on sale of our investments in privately held companies. The increase in 2005 reflects a gain on sale of a private equity investment of $3.6 million during 2005. We do not anticipate any gain or loss on sale of investments in 2007; however, we will continue to evaluate our investments for impairment in accordance with our internal policies and generally accepted accounting principles. 54 Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (79,031 ) $ 405 $ 20 Percent of net revenues (43 )% 1 % 0 % Change over prior year $ (79,436 ) $ 385 Percent change over prior year (19,614 )% 1,925 % During 2003, we established a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets in the United States because we determined it was more likely than not that these deferred tax assets would not be realized against taxable income in the foreseeable future based on our history of operating losses. As a result, the provision for income taxes was primarily based on our current income taxes owed in 2005 and 2004 and was $405,000 and 20,000, respectively. During 2006, we determined that it was more likely than not that $83.6 million of our deferred tax assets, including $1.1 million related to goodwill, that had previously been offset with a valuation allowance would be realized in the foreseeable future. We evaluated the positive and negative evidence and determined that the eventual realization of these assets became more likely than not in the fourth quarter of 2006. This assessment was primarily based on our consistently positive financial results over the previous eight quarters and a positive income outlook that is supported by recurring revenue streams, many of which are generated by customer agreements already under contract. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets relating to capital losses and investment reserves of $9.3 million and assorted state net operating losses of $2.3 million because we have determined that the likelihood of their realization is not currently more likely than not. The $83.6 million reduction to our valuation allowance related to the income statement partially offset by net income tax expense accruals of $3.5 million, resulted in a net benefit from income taxes of $79.0 million in 2006. We expect our effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 to be in the range of 40% to 45% of profit before taxes. Despite this increase in our effective tax rate, our cash payments for income taxes will continue to be nominal over the next few years as we have significant net operating losses, capital losses and tax credit carryforwards to utilize against current income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our aggregate cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2006 were $55.1 million, compared with $163.4 million at December 31, 2005. Cash equivalents are comprised of highly liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. The table below, for the periods indicated, provides selected consolidated cash flow information (in thousands): Fiscal Years 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 46,776 $ 36,703 $ 24,985 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 46,021 $ 45,194 $ (34,105 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (133,712 ) $ (32,012 ) $ (4,619 ) Cash flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities represent the most significant source of funding for our operations. The major uses of our operating cash include funding payroll (salaries, commissions, bonuses and benefits), general operating expenses (marketing, travel, computer and telecommunications, legal and professional expenses, and office rent) and cost of revenues. 55 Operating activities provided $46.8 million, $36.7 million, and $25.0 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our cash provided by operating activities generally follows the trend in our net revenues and operating results. Cash provided by operating activities of $46.8 million during fiscal 2006 primarily consisted of our income before tax of $3.6 million and adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flow from operating activities driven by non cash charges including stock based compensation of $13.6 million, and depreciation and amortization of $12.8 million. Cash flows resulting from changes in assets and liabilities included increases in deferred revenue of $20.2 million, accrued liabilities of $8.8 million and income taxes payable of $2.2 million. The increase in deferred revenue primarily reflected our continued transition to a term license model. Under the term model, we generally bill and collect for a term arrangement in equal installments in advance of each annual period. These amounts are deferred at billing and recognized over the annual term period. This has the effect of increasing deferred revenue when compared with a perpetual license model where no license revenue is deferred. See further discussion of the effects of our transition to a term model in the Overview section. The increase in accrued liabilities primarily reflected increases in accrued bonuses and restructuring expenses relating to the relocation of our corporate headquarters. Other adjustments to cash flows resulting from changes in assets and liabilities included an increase in deferred taxes of $83.4 million primarily due to the release of a valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of 2006. Cash provided by operating activities of $36.7 million during fiscal 2005 primarily consisted of our net income of $14.1 million and non cash charges including depreciation and amortization of $15.3 million. Cash flows resulting from changes in assets and liabilities included increases in accrued liabilities of $4.6 million and deferred revenues of $6.7 million. The increase in accrued liabilities primarily reflected increases in accrued bonuses and accrued legal fees. The increase in deferred revenues reflected new maintenance contracts, existing maintenance contracts renewed at higher prices, and more contracts signed on a term model. These sources of cash were offset by net non operating gains on investments of $3.3 million primarily resulting from a gain on sale of a private equity investment of $3.6 million and decreases in deferred income taxes of $1.1 million and income taxes payable of $1.2 million. The decrease in deferred income taxes reflected the amortization of foreign deferred tax liabilities. The decrease in income taxes payable reflected the payment of a tax settlement. Other major uses of our operating cash including funding payroll (salaries, bonuses and benefits) and general operating expenses (marketing, travel, computer and telecommunications, legal and professional expenses, and office rent). Our net loss during fiscal 2004 was more than offset by non cash charges. Cash flows resulting from changes in assets and liabilities during fiscal 2004 included decreases in accounts receivable, prepaid and other assets, income taxes receivable and increases in accrued liabilities and deferred revenues. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors including fluctuations in our net revenues and operating results, the amount of revenue deferred resulting from our shift to a term license model, collection of accounts receivable, and timing of payments. We expect operating cash flow to be between $54 million to $57 million for fiscal 2007. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities in 2006 of $46.0 million consisted primarily of net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $67.9 million. We liquidated investments to provide the cash required to repurchase our common stock. These cash proceeds were offset by capital expenditures of $19.2 million primarily relating to the completion of our new corporate headquarters facility build out, an increase in restricted cash of $1.3 million to secure a bank line of credit associated with the lease of our new headquarters facility, and capitalized software development costs of $1.4 million. 56 Net cash provided by investing activities in 2005 of $45.2 million consisted of net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $50.4 million and proceeds from the sale of a private equity investment of $3.8 million, offset by capital expenditures of $6.4 million, capitalized software development costs of $1.5 million and acquisition related costs of $1.0 million. Net cash used in investing activities in 2004 of $34.1 million consisted of net purchases of marketable securities of $20.8 million, cash used in acquisitions of $9.6 million and capital expenditures of $3.7 million. Cash used in acquisitions reflected the acquisition of the remaining distributor businesses of Advent Europe in the United Kingdom and Switzerland in May 2004, and earn out payments made to the shareholders of Advent Outsource. During 2004, we added significant customers in the EMEA region and view this as an increasingly important market for us in the future. See Note 3, Acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding acquisitions. We expect a decrease in our capital expenditures in 2007, as we incurred significant capital expenditures in 2006 related to the build out of our new corporate headquarters facility. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in 2006 of $133.7 million reflected the repurchase of 4.7 million shares of our common stock for $148.6 million, partially offset by proceeds received from the issuance of common stock of $14.5 million. Net cash used in financing activities in 2005 of $32.0 million reflected the repurchase of 2.8 million shares of our common stock for $52.6 million, partially offset by proceeds received from the issuance of common stock related to stock options and our employee stock purchase plan totaling $20.6 million. Net cash used in financing activities in 2004 of $4.6 million reflected the repurchase of 744,000 shares of our common stock for $11.9 million, partially offset by stock issued through employee stock purchase and stock option plans totaling $7.3 million. Common Stock Repurchases Advents Board has approved common stock repurchase programs authorizing management to repurchase shares of the Companys common stock to enhance shareholder value. The timing and actual number of shares subject to repurchase are at the discretion of Advents management and are contingent on a number of factors and limitations, including the price of Advents stock, corporate and regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. The stock repurchase programs specify a maximum number of shares subject to repurchase, do not have an expiration date and may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. Repurchased shares would be returned to the status of authorized and un issued shares of common stock. The purchases are funded from available working capital. The purchase price for the shares of our common stock repurchased was reflected as a reduction to stockholders equity. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 6, Status of Accounting Research Bulletins, we are required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) an increase to accumulated deficit and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid in capital. Issuance of common stock and the tax benefit related to employee stock option plans are recorded as an increase to common stock and additional paid in capital. As a result of future repurchases, we may continue to report an accumulated deficit included in stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheets. 57 The following is a summary of the repurchase programs authorized by the Board during fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 (in thousands): Number of Shares Date of Authorization Authorized May 2004 1,200 September 2004 800 February 2005 1,800 May 2005 1,000 April 2006 2,300 July 2006 1,500 Total 8,600 The following is a summary of the Companys repurchase activity during fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 (in thousands, except per share data: Total Average Number Price of Shares Paid Per Fiscal Year Repurchased Cost Share 2004 744 $ 11,899 $ 15.99 2005 2,835 $ 52,584 $ 18.55 2006 4,691 $ 148,602 $ 31.68 Total 8,270 $ 213,085 $ 25.77 As of December 31, 2006, approximately 330,000 shares were available to be repurchased under the most recent Board authorized share repurchase plan approved in July 2006. On February 9, 2007, our Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 2.25 million shares of outstanding common stock. Our liquidity and capital resources in any period could be affected by the exercise of outstanding stock options and issuance of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. The resulting increase in the number of outstanding shares from this and from the issuance of common stock from our other outstanding equity awards (RSUs and SARs) could also affect our per share results of operations. However, we cannot predict the timing or amount of proceeds from the exercise of these securities, or whether they will be exercised at all. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to continue our common stock repurchase activity. At December 31, 2006, we had negative working capital of $0.3 million, down from working capital of $115.8 million at December 31, 2005, primarily as a result of our common stock repurchases totaling $148.6 million during 2006, and to a lesser extent deferred revenue growth. We currently have no significant capital commitments other than commitments under our operating leases, which increased from $21.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $49.0 million at December 31, 2006, primarily as a result of our entry into lease agreements in January and October 2006 for our facilities located at 600 Townsend Street in San Francisco, California and 619 West 54th Street in New York, New York, respectively. The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2006 (in thousands): Fiscal Years 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Operating lease obligations, net of sub lease income $ 5,879 $ 7,090 $ 5,322 $ 4,778 $ 4,272 $ 21,615 $ 48,956 58 At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. In February 2007, we and certain of our domestic subsidiaries entered into a senior secured credit facility agreement (the Facility) with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. (the Lender). Under the Facility, the Lender will provide the Company with a revolving line of credit up to an aggregate amount of $75 million, subject to a borrowing base formula, to provide backup liquidity for general corporate purposes, including stock repurchases, or investment opportunities for a period of three years. We expect that for the foreseeable future, our operating expenses and common stock repurchases will continue to constitute a significant use of cash flow. In addition, we may use cash to fund acquisitions or invest in other businesses, when opportunities arise. Based upon our past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash generated from operations and availability under our Facility will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases and financing activities for the foreseeable future. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Our off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2006 consist of obligations under operating leases. See Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above for further discussion and a tabular presentation of our contractual obligations. Recent Developments On February 9, 2007, our Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 2.25 million shares of outstanding common stock. On February 14, 2007, we entered into a senior secured credit facility agreement (the Facility) with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. (the Lender) for a term of three years. Under the Facility, the Lender will provide the Company with a revolving line of credit up to an aggregate amount of $75 million to fund the repurchase of outstanding common stock, working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements. The Company has the option of selecting an interest rate for any drawdown under the Facility equal to either: (a) the Base Rate; or (b) the then applicable LIBOR Rate plus 1.50% per annum. The loan is secured by the Companys property and assets and is subject to a financial covenant. The financial covenant in the Facility is limited to a maximum ratio of senior debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). Covenant testing will commence upon either the occurrence of an event of default or when excess availability under the Facility plus qualified cash and cash equivalents is less than $50 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting standards and pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Historically, much of our revenues and capital spending was transacted in U.S. dollars. 59 However, since the acquisitions of Advent Denmark, Advent Norway, Advent Sweden, Advent Netherlands, and Advent Europes remaining distributors in the United Kingdom and Switzerland, whose service and certain license revenues and capital spending, are transacted in local country currencies, we have greater exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Additionally as of December 31, 2006, $39.2 million and $1.1 million of goodwill and intangibles from the acquisition of these entities is denominated in foreign currency. Therefore a hypothetical change of 10% could increase or decrease our assets and equity by $4 million. We do not believe that a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. Our interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consisted of $20.2 million in cash equivalents and $24.9 million in marketable securities as of December 31, 2006. An immediate sharp increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of our investment portfolio. Conversely, immediate sharp declines in interest rates could seriously harm interest earnings of our investment portfolio. We do not currently use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio, nor hedge for these interest rate exposures. By policy, we limit our exposure to longer term investments, and the majority of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2006 and 2005 had interest rate maturities of less than one year. As a result of the relatively short duration of our portfolio, an immediate hypothetical parallel shift to the yield curve of plus 25 basis points (BPS), 50 BPS and 100 BPS would result in a reduction of 0.11% ($51,000), 0.23% ($103,000) and 0.46% ($205,000), respectively, in the market value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006. We have also invested in several privately held companies, most of which can still be considered in the start up or development stages. These non marketable investments are classified as other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Our investments in privately held companies could be affected by an adverse movement in the financial markets for publicly traded equity securities, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products these privately held companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. It is our policy to review investments in privately held companies on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying amount and economic viability of these companies. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational performance, management/ownership changes and competition. The evaluation process is based on information that we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. Our investments in privately held companies are assessed for impairment when a review of the investees operations indicates that a decline in value of the investment is other than temporary. Such indicators include, but are not limited to, limited capital resources, limited prospects of receiving additional financing, and prospects for liquidity of the related securities. Impaired investments in privately held companies are written down to estimated fair value. We estimate fair value using a variety of valuation methodologies. Such methodologies include comparing the private company with publicly traded companies in similar lines of business, applying revenue multiples to estimated future operating results for the private company and estimating discounted cash flows for that company. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. At December 31, 2006, our net investments in privately held companies totaled $8.5 million, which was principally comprised of our investment in LatentZero Limited, a privately held company located in the United Kingdom. 60 
</SECTION>
