<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS INC
CIK: 0001002637
SIC: 2834
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070301
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of our operations contains forward looking statements, including statements about our growth and future operating results, discovery and development of products, strategic alliances and intellectual property. For this purpose, any statement that is not a statement of historical fact should be considered a forward looking statement. We often use the words expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, may, will and similar expressions to help identify forward looking statements. Actual results may differ from those indicated by such forward looking statements as a result of various important factors, including, without limitation, those factors discussed in this annual report under the heading Risk Factors. Overview We are an innovation driven biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing and commercializing medicines to change the lives of patients with cancer and inflammatory diseases. We currently commercialize VELCADE, the U.S. market leader for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy. In addition, VELCADE is the first and only FDA approved therapeutic for the treatment of patients who have received at least one prior therapy for mantle cell lymphoma, or MCL. We have a development pipeline of nine clinical and preclinical product candidates in our therapeutic focus areas of cancer and inflammatory diseases, and we have an oncology focused drug discovery organization. Strategic business relationships are a key component of our business. In November 2006, we completed a sale of $250.0 million of 2.25% convertible senior notes due November 15, 2011, or the 2.25% notes, which resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $242.2 million. The 2.25% notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price equal to $15.47 per share, subject to adjustment, unless previously repurchased by us under certain circumstances. Under the terms of the 2.25% notes, we are required to make semi annual interest payments on the outstanding principal balance of the 2.25% notes on May 15 and November 15 of each year. We expect to use the net proceeds from the 2.25% notes primarily to acquire therapeutic agents, which may be in development or already marketed, through license arrangements or acquisitions of other companies, and any balance for general corporate purposes, including working capital. In 2005 we refined our business strategy to focus on advancing key growth assets including VELCADE, our clinical and preclinical pipeline of oncology and inflammation molecules and our oncology focused discovery organization. In 2006, we announced a program to further align resources with our current corporate priorities of advancing VELCADE and accelerating the clinical pipeline. As part of this program, we reduced in house research and preclinical development technologies and headcount in areas where we believe the work can now be outsourced cost effectively, and we also scaled back infrastructure supporting these activities. We recorded restructuring charges of approximately $5.2 million related to the 2006 program for the year ended December 31, 2006. We recorded total restructuring charges of approximately $20.4 million under all restructuring initiatives primarily related to facilities charges for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect total restructuring charges in 2007, under all restructuring initiatives, to be within the range of $15.0 million to $25.0 million. We are still evaluating the need or opportunity for further facilities consolidation associated with the 2006 restructuring initiative and the total future restructuring charges for facility consolidation are dependent upon the nature and timing of the final decisions we make. As we continue to evaluate strategic alternatives, including potential facilities consolidation in connection with our programs, we may incur significant restructuring charges in future periods. 39 In October 2006, we announced a two year agreement with Ortho Biotech Inc., or OBI, to jointly promote VELCADE in the U.S. In the first quarter of 2007, OBI and we began to jointly promote VELCADE to U.S. based physicians who treat multiple myeloma patients. On September 1, 2005, Schering Plough Ltd. and Schering Corporation, together referred to as SGP, obtained the exclusive U.S. development and commercialization rights for INTEGRILIN from us. Our restructured relationship with SGP has been, and we expect it to continue to be, at least financially equivalent to the former co promotion arrangement that we had with SGP prior to September 1, 2005, taking into account the expected future revenues and anticipated costs savings. Strategically, our goal in restructuring the relationship was to increase the near term certainty of revenues from INTEGRILIN through the guaranteed minimum royalties for 2006 and 2007, while eliminating the need to further invest our resources into INTEGRILIN sales and marketing and development activities. In addition, the restructured relationship allows us to focus on our key growth assets, including VELCADE, our product candidate pipeline and our oncology focused discovery organization. Our business strategy is to build a portfolio of new medicines based on our understanding of genomics and particular molecular pathways that affect the establishment and progression of specific diseases. These molecular pathways include the related effects of proteins on cellular performance, reproduction and death. We plan to develop and commercialize many of our products on our own, but expect to seek development and commercial collaborators on favorable terms or when we otherwise believe that doing so would be advantageous to us. In the near term, we expect to focus our commercial activities in cancer where we plan to build on our commercial and regulatory experience with VELCADE. We also are working to obtain approval to market VELCADE in the United States and, through Ortho Biotech Products, L.P., or OBL, elsewhere for the treatment of multiple myeloma in newly diagnosed, or front line patients, and for the treatment of additional cancer types. We believe, if approved, these additional uses of VELCADE would lead to a significant expansion of our cancer business. In inflammatory disease, we are advancing novel product candidates in clinical development as potential treatments for serious and widely prevalent conditions. In the long term, we expect to bring new products to market on a regular basis from our pipeline of discovery and development stage programs. We also expect to continue to evaluate opportunities to in license and acquire molecules from other companies in order to supplement our pipeline. If we are successful, we will use the revenues from this expanding portfolio of marketed products to broaden the scope of our operations. VELCADE VELCADE, the first of a new class of medicines called proteasome inhibitors, was the first treatment in more than a decade to be approved in the United States for patients with multiple myeloma. We received accelerated approval based on phase II data from the FDA on May 13, 2003 to market VELCADE for the treatment of multiple myeloma patients who have received at least two prior therapies and have demonstrated disease progression on their most recent therapy, commonly referred to as third line and beyond. In December 2006, the FDA granted full approval of VELCADE for the treatment of patients with MCL who have received at least one prior therapy, commonly referred to as relapsed, or second line MCL. This approval followed the FDAs decision in November 2004 to grant VELCADE fast track designation for MCL due to the high unmet medical need of MCL patients and the strength of clinical trial data for VELCADE in the treatment of MCL. In April 2006, we initiated a phase III trial of VELCADE in combination with rituximab in the relapsed follicular and marginal zone non Hodgkins lymphoma setting. 40 In March 2005, we received full approval from the FDA of our supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, for VELCADE for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy, commonly referred to as second line or relapsed multiple myeloma. This regulatory decision increases the approved market potential of the drug and also marked the completion of the confirmatory studies required by the FDA after it granted accelerated approval in May 2003. VELCADE is the only single agent therapy that has both demonstrated longer survival in patients with multiple myeloma and the extension of patient survival on its FDA approved labeling. In April 2004, the European Commission granted Marketing Authorization for VELCADE in Europe for the treatment of multiple myeloma patients who have received at least two prior therapies and have demonstrated disease progression on their most recent therapy. Under this Authorization, the European Commission granted us a single license for marketing VELCADE in the 15 member states of the European Union, plus Norway and Iceland. VELCADE was also approved for marketing in the ten accession member countries when those countries officially joined the European Union on May 1, 2004. Regulatory authorities in a number of other countries, including countries within Latin America and South East Asia and Japan have also approved VELCADE. The product is now approved in more than 75 countries. Under our agreement with OBL, we have transferred the licenses to affiliates of OBL. OBLs affiliates now market VELCADE in these countries. In April 2005, OBL received approval from the European Commission for VELCADE as a monotherapy for multiple myeloma patients who have received at least one prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for bone marrow transplantation. In October 2006, OBL received approval for marketing VELCADE in Japan for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma in patients who have received at least one prior therapy. Our Alliances VELCADE Ortho Biotech Collaborations In October 2006, we announced a two year agreement with Ortho Biotech Inc., or OBI, to jointly promote VELCADE in the U.S. In the first quarter of 2007, OBI and we began to jointly promote VELCADE to U.S. based physicians who treat multiple myeloma patients. We will pay the cost of a portion of the OBI sales effort dedicated to VELCADE and a commission if sales associated with the increased effort exceed specified targets. Both parties are able to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances and subject to termination fees. We will continue to be responsible for manufacturing and distribution of VELCADE in the U.S. We believe this collaboration, with the well established OBI oncology sales force, will help us to realize the full potential of VELCADE in the U.S. market. Our current agreement with OBL, a member of the Johnson Family Of Companies and an affiliate of OBI, for the promotion of VELCADE outside the U.S. remains unchanged. In June 2003, we entered into an agreement with OBL to collaborate on the commercialization of VELCADE and with Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development, L.L.C., or JJPRD, for the continued clinical development of VELCADE. OBL and its affiliate, Janssen Cilag, are commercializing VELCADE outside of the United States, and Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. is responsible for Japan. We receive distribution fees included in royalties from OBL and its affiliates from sales of VELCADE outside of the United States. We manage the supply chain for VELCADE at the expense of OBL for products sold in the OBL territories. We retain an option to co promote VELCADE with OBL at a future date in specified European countries. We are engaged with JJPRD in an extensive global program for further clinical development of VELCADE with the purpose of maximizing the commercial potential of VELCADE. This program is 41 investigating the potential of VELCADE to treat multiple forms of solid and hematological tumors, including continued clinical development of VELCADE for multiple myeloma and non Hodgkins lymphoma, or NHL. JJPRD was responsible for 40% of the joint development costs through 2005 and is now responsible for 45% of those costs. We are eligible to receive payments from JJPRD or OBL for achieving clinical development milestones, regulatory milestones outside of the United States or agreed upon sales levels of VELCADE. INTEGRILIN Through August 31, 2005, we co promoted INTEGRILIN in the United States in collaboration with SGP and shared profits and losses. As of September 1, 2005, SGP markets INTEGRILIN in the United States and specified other areas outside of the European Union. GlaxoSmithKline plc, or GSK, markets INTEGRILIN in the European Union under a license from us. SGP Collaboration In April 1995, COR entered into a collaboration agreement with SGP to jointly develop and commercialize INTEGRILIN on a worldwide basis. We acquired COR in February 2002. Under our original collaboration agreement with SGP, we generally shared any profits or losses from INTEGRILIN sales in the United States included in co promotion revenue with SGP and we granted SGP an exclusive license to market INTEGRILIN outside the United States and the European Union in exchange for royalty obligations. On September 1, 2005, SGP obtained the exclusive U.S. development and commercialization rights for INTEGRILIN products from us and paid us a nonrefundable upfront payment of approximately $35.5 million. In addition, we are entitled to receive royalties on net product sales of INTEGRILIN in the United States from SGP for so long as SGP is engaged in the commercialization and sale of an INTEGRILIN product in the United States, with the potential of receiving royalties beyond the 2014 patent expiration date. Minimum royalty payments for 2007 are set at approximately $85.4 million. There are no guaranteed minimum royalty payments beyond 2007. We also receive royalties on net product sales by SGP outside of the United States. SGPs obligation to pay us royalties in other countries expires on a country by country basis upon the later of fifteen years from the first commercial use of an INTEGRILIN product in such country and the expiration of the last to expire patent covering such INTEGRILIN product. We are continuing to manage the supply chain for INTEGRILIN at the expense of SGP for products sold in the SGP territories including the U.S. We receive payments as a result of managing the supply chain and record those payments as strategic alliance revenue. GSK License Agreement In June 2004, we reacquired the rights to market INTEGRILIN in Europe from SGP and concurrently entered into a license agreement granting GSK exclusive marketing rights to INTEGRILIN in Europe. In January 2005, the transition of the INTEGRILIN marketing authorizations for the European Union from SGP to GSK was completed, and GSK began selling INTEGRILIN in the countries of the European Union. GSK also markets INTEGRILIN in other European countries where it has received approval of the transfer from SGP to GSK of the relevant marketing authorizations. Under the terms of the agreement, we have received license fees and are entitled to future royalties from GSK on INTEGRILIN sales in Europe subject to the achievement of specified objectives. We manage the supply chain for INTEGRILIN at the expense of GSK for products sold in the GSK territories. We receive payments as a result of managing the supply chain and record those payments as strategic alliance revenue. 42 sanofi aventis Inflammatory Disease Collaboration In June 2000, we entered into a broad agreement in the field of inflammatory disease with Aventis, now sanofi aventis, which includes joint discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule drugs for the treatment of specified inflammatory diseases. This agreement covers a substantial portion of our development program in the inflammatory disease area and provides us with potential access to sanofi aventis large promotional infrastructure in connection with the commercialization of jointly developed products. The discovery phase of this collaboration has concluded. However, we and sanofi aventis are continuing a limited research program covering two advanced preclinical candidates discovered through the collaboration. The development and commercialization programs continue under the agreement. As provided in the original agreement, in North America, we have agreed to share the responsibility for and cost of developing, manufacturing and marketing products arising from the alliance. Outside of North America, sanofi aventis is responsible for and will bear the cost of developing, manufacturing and marketing products arising from the alliance. sanofi aventis is required to pay us a royalty on product sales outside of North America. Under this agreement, sanofi aventis acquired 4.5 million shares of our common stock over a two year period through 2001 for $250.0 million. To date, we and sanofi aventis have identified a significant number of novel drug targets and associated molecules relevant in inflammatory diseases. During the remaining portion of the development phase of the alliance, we and sanofi aventis have agreed to focus our joint resources on preclinical and clinical development of candidates identified in the collaboration. As of the end of 2006, the alliance had identified several development candidates, one of which, MLN3897, is now being tested in a phase II clinical trial and two of which, MLN3701 and MLN0415, are now being tested by us in phase I clinical trials. A fourth candidate, MLN6095, is now in preclinical testing. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventory, intangible assets, goodwill, restructuring and stock based compensation expense. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, we believe the following accounting policies are most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Revenue We recognize revenue from the sale of our products, our strategic alliances and royalties and distribution fees based on net sales of licensed products. We recognized revenue from our co promotion collaboration through August 31, 2005. We divide our revenue arrangements with multiple elements into separate units of accounting if specified criteria are met, including whether the delivered element has stand alone value to the customer and whether there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items. We allocate the consideration we receive among the separate units based on their respective fair values, and we apply the applicable revenue recognition criteria to each of the separate 43 units. We classify advance payments received in excess of amounts earned as deferred revenue until earned. We recognize revenue from the sale of VELCADE in the United States when delivery has occurred and title has transferred. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we began distributing VELCADE through a sole source open access distribution model in which we sell directly to an independent third party who in turn distributes to the wholesaler base. In April 2006, our sole source distributor added a second distribution site to its network in order to improve access to the product for physicians in the western United States. Under our agreement with our sole source distributor, inventory levels are contractually limited to no more than three weeks. VELCADE product inventory levels held by the sole source distributor and wholesalers may fluctuate from time to time within our desired range of one to two weeks of inventory in the distribution channel. For example, during the second quarter of 2006, inventory levels rose by less than a week to the higher end of our one to two week desired range. We record allowances as a reduction to product sales for product returns, chargebacks and discounts at the time of sale. We estimate VELCADE product returns based on historical return patterns. We expect VELCADE returns to be, and returns have been, generally low because the shelf life for the product is 18 months in the United States, and we expect, and have experienced, that wholesalers will not stock significant inventory due to the relatively high cost of the product. We consider several factors in our estimation process, including our internal sales forecasts, inventory levels as provided by wholesalers and third party market research data. As we continually monitor actual product returns and inventory levels in the domestic distribution channel, we have reduced and may, from time to time in the future, reduce our product returns estimate. Doing so results in increased product sales at the time the return estimate is changed. If circumstances change or conditions become more competitive in the market for therapeutic products that address multiple myeloma, we may take actions to increase our product return estimates. Doing so would result in an incremental reduction of product sales at the time the return estimate is changed. Our accruals for rebates, chargebacks, and other discounts were immaterial at December 31, 2006. Through August 31, 2005, we recognized co promotion revenue based on SGPs reported shipments of INTEGRILIN to wholesalers. Co promotion revenue included our share of the profits from the sales of INTEGRILIN and reimbursements of our manufacturing related costs, development costs and advertising and promotional expenses. We communicated with SGP to calculate our share of the profits from the sales of INTEGRILIN on a monthly basis. The calculation included estimates of the amount of advertising and promotional expenses and other costs incurred on a monthly basis. Adjustments to our estimates were based upon actual information that we received subsequent to our reporting deadlines. Our estimates were adjusted on a monthly basis and historically the adjustments were not significant due to frequent communication with SGP. We recognize nonrefundable upfront licensing fees and guaranteed, time based payments that, in either case, require continuing involvement in the form of research and development, manufacturing or other commercialization efforts by us as strategic alliance revenue: ratably over the development period if development risk is significant; ratably over the manufacturing period or estimated product useful life if development risk has been substantially eliminated; or based upon the level of research services performed during the period of the research contract. When the period of deferral cannot be specifically identified from the contract, management estimates the period based upon other critical factors contained within the contract. We continually review these estimates, which could result in a change in the deferral period and might impact the timing and the amount of revenue recognized. 44 Milestone payments are recognized as strategic alliance revenue when the substantive performance obligations, as defined in the contract, are achieved. Performance obligations typically consist of significant milestones in the development life cycle of the related product candidate, such as initiation of clinical trials, filing for approval with regulatory agencies and approvals by regulatory agencies. Reimbursements of research and development costs are recognized as strategic alliance revenue as the related costs are incurred. We are entitled to receive royalty payments under license agreements with a number of third parties that sell products based on technology we have developed or to which we have rights. These license agreements provide for the payment of royalties to us based on sales of the licensed product and we record royalty revenues based on estimates of sales from interim data provided by licensees. Beginning September 1, 2005, upon closing the amended collaboration agreement with SGP, we began recording royalty revenues as a separate line item in our statement of operations. For all of our royalty arrangements, we perform an analysis of historical royalties we have been paid, adjusted for any changes in facts and circumstances, as appropriate. Differences between actual royalty revenues and estimated royalty revenues are adjusted for in the period which they become known, typically the following quarter. These adjustments have not been, and we do not expect them to be, significant. To the extent we do not have sufficient ability to accurately estimate royalty revenue, we record royalties on a cash basis. Inventory Inventory consists of currently marketed products. VELCADE inventories primarily represent raw materials used in production, work in process and finished goods inventory on hand, valued at cost. INTEGRILIN inventories include raw materials used in production and work in process, valued at cost, to supply GSK and limited amounts of work in process, valued at cost, to supply SGP. We review inventories periodically for slow moving or obsolete status based on sales activity, both projected and historical. Our current sales projections provide for full utilization of the inventory balance. If product sales levels differ from projections or a launch of a new product is delayed, inventory may not be fully utilized and could be subject to impairment, at which point we would adjust inventory to its net realizable value. Intangible Assets We have acquired significant intangible assets that we value and record. Those assets that do not yet have regulatory approval and for which there are no alternative uses are expensed as acquired in process research and development, and those that are specifically identified and have alternative future uses are capitalized. We use a discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets at acquisition. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inflows and outflows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. We engage independent valuation experts who review our critical assumptions for significant acquisitions of intangibles. We review intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis using an undiscounted net cash flows approach when impairment indicators arise. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, we would write down the intangible asset to the discounted cash flow value. Where we cannot identify cash flows for an individual asset, our review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill On October 1, 2006, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and determined that no impairment existed on that date. However, since the date of acquisition of COR, which generated a significant amount of goodwill, we have experienced a significant decline in market capitalization due to a decline in stock price. We continually monitor business and market conditions, including the restructured relationship with SGP, to assess whether an impairment indicator exists. If we were to determine that an 45 impairment indicator exists, we would be required to perform an impairment test, which could result in a material impairment charge to our statement of operations. Restructuring In accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, our facilities related expenses and liabilities under all of our restructuring plans included estimates of the remaining rental obligations, net of estimated sublease income, for facilities we no longer occupy. We validated our estimates and assumptions with independent third parties having relevant expertise in the real estate market. We review our estimates and assumptions on a regular basis until the outcome is finalized, and make whatever modifications we believe necessary, based on our best judgment, to reflect any changed circumstances. It is possible that such estimates could change in the future resulting in additional adjustments, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. Stock Based Compensation Expense We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, or SFAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006 under the modified prospective method. SFAS 123R requires the recognition of the fair value of stock based compensation expense in our operations, and accordingly the adoption of SFAS 123R fair value method has had and will continue to have a significant impact on our results of operations, although it will have no impact on our overall financial position. Option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including stock price volatility and expected term of an option. In determining our volatility, we have considered implied volatilities of currently traded options to provide an estimate of volatility based upon current trading activity in addition to our historical volatility. After considering other such factors as our stage of development, the length of time we have been public and the impact of having a marketed product, we believe a blended volatility rate based upon the most recent three year and four year periods of historical performance, as well as the implied volatilities of currently traded options, best reflects the expected volatility of our stock going forward. Changes in market price directly affect volatility and could cause stock based compensation expense to vary significantly in future reporting periods. We use historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior, adjusted for known trends, to arrive at the estimated expected life of an option. We update these assumptions on a quarterly basis to reflect recent historical data. Additionally, we are required to estimate forfeiture rates to approximate the number of shares that will vest in a period to which the fair value is applied. We will continually monitor employee exercise behavior and may further adjust the estimated term and forfeiture rates in future periods. Increasing the estimated life would result in an increase in the fair value to be recognized over the requisite service period, generally the vesting period. Estimated forfeitures will be adjusted to actual forfeitures upon the vest date of the cancelled options as a cumulative catch up adjustment on a quarterly basis. Doing so could cause future expenses to vary at each reporting period. In March 2006, we revised our annual merit compensation program to include the availability of both stock options and restricted stock to certain employees. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recognized total stock based compensation expense under SFAS 123R of $42.1 million. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock option awards amounted to approximately $15.6 million, including estimated forfeitures, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service periods of approximately one and one half years. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock awards amounted to approximately $7.6 million, including estimated forfeitures, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service periods of approximately one and three quarter years. 46 During the second quarter of 2006, we received a telephone inquiry from the Securities ad Exchange Commission, or SEC, regarding whether stock options we awarded with a stated grant date of September 26, 2001 were, in fact, granted on that date. We were one of more than 30 companies discussed in a May 2006 third party report concerning the timing of stock option grants from 1997 through 2002. With respect to us, the report referenced option grants dated September 26, 2001. During the second quarter of 2006, we initiated a review of our September 26, 2001 grants, as well as other historical grants. We completed this review during the third quarter of 2006 and met with the SEC to discuss our findings. We reported to the SEC that our review did not uncover any evidence of fraud with respect to the September 26, 2001 options grants or the other historical option grants that we reviewed. Additionally, we reported to the SEC our conclusion that any additional compensation expense resulting from the grants we reviewed was immaterial. The SEC staff advised us at our meeting that they would communicate with us after they had evaluated the results of our review and the documentation we provided. Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, or SFAS No. 157. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 codifies the definition of fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability and establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We do not currently believe that adoption will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. This interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Although we have not completed our evaluation of the interpretation, we do not currently believe that adoption will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Reclassifications We have reclassified certain prior year amounts within the consolidated statements of cash flows to conform to the current year presentation related to equity adjustments from foreign currency translation. We have reclassified certain prior year amounts included in accrued expenses of the consolidated balance sheets to accounts payable to conform to the current year presentation related to uninvoiced receipts in the normal course of business. This reclassification has no impact on previously reported net loss or current liabilities in any period presented. 47 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Annual Percentage Change 2006 2005 2004 2006/2005 2005/2004 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Revenues: Net product sales $ 220,452 $ 192,073 $ 143,052 15 % 34 % Co promotion revenue 123,524 206,264 (100 ) (40 ) Revenue under strategic alliances 131,675 204,519 98,890 (36 ) 107 Royalties 134,703 38,192 253 Total revenues 486,830 558,308 448,206 (13 ) 25 Costs and expenses: Cost of sales (excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets) 45,445 141,327 70,286 (68 ) 101 Research and development 318,170 342,184 402,558 (7 ) (15 ) Selling, general and administrative 155,633 180,599 196,644 (14 ) (8 ) Restructuring 20,393 77,110 38,033 (74 ) 103 Amortization of intangibles 33,950 33,987 33,512 1 Total costs and expenses 573,591 775,207 741,033 (26 ) 5 Loss from operations (86,761 ) (216,899 ) (292,827 ) (60 ) (26 ) Other income (expense): Investment income, net 30,973 29,083 11,221 6 159 Interest expense (11,068 ) (10,433 ) (10,691 ) 6 (2 ) Other income 22,903 Gain on sale of equity interest in joint venture 40,000 (100 ) Net loss $ (43,953 ) $ (198,249 ) $ (252,297 ) (78 ) (21 ) Amounts per common share: Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.14 ) $ (0.64 ) $ (0.83 ) Weighted average shares, basic and diluted 313,724 308,284 304,830 Note 1: Upon adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, the Company began recording stock based compensation expense in its consolidated statements of operations. No stock based compensation expense was recognized under SFAS 123R in any prior period. Stock based compensation expense is allocated in the consolidated statements of operations expense lines as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Research and development $ 23,280 $ $ Selling, general and administrative 18,861 $ 42,141 $ $ 48 Revenues Total revenues decreased 13% to $486.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 and increased 25% in 2005 to $558.3 million from $448.2 million in 2004. The decrease in 2006 was primarily related to lower revenue received from our collaborators, which consists of revenue under strategic alliances, royalties, and in 2005, co promotion revenue. The decrease in revenue received from our collaborations was primarily the result of the restructured relationship with SGP, including a one time sale of existing INTEGRILIN inventory to SGP during the third quarter of 2005. Additionally, we recognized lower license fees from GSK in 2006. This decrease was offset in part by increased distribution fees recognized from OBL on sales of VELCADE outside of the United States. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to the net effect of the restructured SGP collaboration relationship and increased net product sales of VELCADE. Net product sales of VELCADE increased 15% to $220.5 million in 2006 and 34% to $192.1 million in 2005 from $143.1 million in 2004. The increase in 2006 was primarily due to price increases of the product and our ability to maintain the products market leadership in the relapsed multiple myeloma treatment setting despite new competition in 2006. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to growth in the second line treatment setting as a result of the March 2005 FDA market approval of our sNDA filing. Reserves for product returns, chargebacks and discounts represented approximately 5.4% to 6.5% of gross product sales in 2006 and 2005. Net product sales from VELCADE represented approximately 45% of our 2006 total revenues, 34% of our 2005 total revenues and 32% of our 2004 total revenues. Total revenues related to VELCADE, including net product sales of the product by us in the U.S. and revenues from OBL included in strategic alliance revenue and royalties more fully described below, were approximately $327.2 million in 2006, $248.6 million in 2005 and $221.0 million in 2004. As of September 1, 2005, we are no longer reporting co promotion revenue due to our restructured relationship with SGP. Co promotion revenue from INTEGRILIN represented approximately 22% of our 2005 total revenues and 46% of our 2004 total revenues. In 2006, the first full year of our modified relationship with SGP, total revenues related to INTEGRILIN were approximately $142.0 million, including $85.4 million in royalties we received from SGP for sales of INTEGRILIN in the United States. In 2005 and 2004, total revenues related to INTEGRILIN, including co promotion revenue and revenues from SGP and GSK included in strategic alliance revenues and royalties more fully described below, were approximately $287.9 million and $206.3 million, respectively. Revenue under strategic alliances decreased 36% to $131.7 million in 2006 and increased 107% to $204.5 million in 2005 from $98.9 million in 2004. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to the one time sale of existing INTEGRILIN inventory to SGP in 2005, as well as lower license fees recognized from GSK. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to the reimbursement of manufacturing related expenses, including the September 1, 2005 one time sale of the existing raw materials and finished goods INTEGRILIN inventory to SGP of approximately $71.4 million. We expect revenue under strategic alliances to fluctuate in future periods depending on the level of revenues earned for ongoing development efforts, the timing of milestones achieved and the number of alliances we may enter into in the future with major biopharmaceutical companies. Beginning September 1, 2005, in connection with the closing of our transaction with SGP, we now record royalty revenue. Royalty revenue may include royalties earned upon sales of INTEGRILIN in the United States and other territories around the world as provided by SGP, royalties earned upon sales of INTEGRILIN in Europe as provided by GSK, distribution fees earned upon sales outside of the United States of VELCADE as provided by OBL and any royalties earned under certain of our early discovery alliances. We recorded $134.7 million and $38.2 million of royalty revenue in 2006 and 2005, primarily consisting of royalties from SGP and OBL. 49 We recognize revenues from activities outside of the U.S., including royalties, distribution fees, milestones from OBL, SGP and GSK for sales of VELCADE and INTEGRILIN and for cost reimbursement of product sold to these parties. Without taking into account revenues we receive for development costs or milestones, our revenues for these activities outside of the U.S. were $113.5 million in 2006, $62.2 million in 2005 and $64.9 million in 2004. Cost of Sales Cost of sales decreased 68% to $45.4 million in 2006 and increased 101% to $141.3 million in 2005 from $70.3 million in 2004. Cost of sales includes manufacturing related expenses associated with the sale of VELCADE, as well as costs associated with managing the INTEGRILIN supply chain on behalf of SGP. The decrease in 2006 and the 2005 increase was primarily due to the one time sale of existing INTEGRILIN inventory to SGP in 2005 on September 1, 2005. Research and Development Research and development expenses decreased 7% to $318.2 million in 2006 and 15% to $342.2 million in 2005 from $402.6 million in 2004. The decreases in both 2006 and 2005 were primarily a result of cost reductions associated with our 2005 strategy refinement and restructuring efforts combined with the decreased spending in our discovery organization. Research and development expenses in 2006 include stock based compensation expense of approximately $23.3 million related to the adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. 50 In addition to our ongoing clinical trials of VELCADE, we have a number of drug candidates in clinical and late preclinical development. In January 2006, as part of our portfolio review process, based on the evaluation of recent clinical data in the context of additional opportunities in the pipeline, we decided to discontinue development of MLN2704 as well as MLN1202 in rheumatoid arthritis. The following chart summarizes the applicable disease indication and the clinical or preclinical trial status of our pipeline of drug candidates as of February 2007. Product Description Disease Indication Current Trial Status Cancer MLN518 is a small molecule inhibitor of the Receptor Tyrosine Kinase, or RTK, including FLT 3, PDGF Rand c KIT Acute myeloid leukemia Glioma(1) Renal(1) Prostate(1) phase I/phase II phase I planned for 2007 phase I /phase II phase I /phase II MLN8054 is a small molecule inhibitor of Aurora A Kinase Advanced malignancies phase I MLN8237 is a small molecule inhibitor of Aurora A Kinase Advanced malignancies preclinical Inflammatory Diseases MLN0002 is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against the alpha4beta7 receptor Crohns disease Ulcerative colitis preclinical with prior phase II data preclinical with prior phase II data MLN1202 is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against CCR2 Multiple sclerosis Atherosclerosis phase IIa phase IIa completed MLN3897 is a small molecule CCR1 inhibitor(2) Chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis phase II MLN3701 is a small molecule CCR1 inhibitor, backup to MLN3897(2) Chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis phase I MLN0415 is a small molecule inhibitor of IKKbeta Chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis phase I MLN6095 is a small molecule CrTh2 receptor antagonist (2) Inflammatory diseases preclinical (1) Trials being conducted or planned to be conducted through Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, a division of the National Cancer Institute. (2) In development through our sanofi aventis inflammatory disease collaboration. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more and the length of time can vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a product candidate. The types of costs incurred during a clinical trial vary depending upon the type of product candidate and the nature of the study. 51 We estimate that clinical trials in our areas of focus are typically completed over the following timelines: Clinical Phase Objective Estimated Completion Period phase I Establish safety in humans, study how the drug works, metabolizes and interacts with other drugs 1 2 years phase II Evaluate efficacy, optimal dosages and expanded evidence of safety 2 3 years phase III Confirm efficacy and safety of the product 2 3 years Upon successful completion of phase III clinical trials of a product candidate, we intend to submit the results to the FDA to support regulatory approval. However, we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will prove to be safe or effective, will receive regulatory approvals, or will be successfully commercialized. Our clinical trials might prove that our product candidates may not be effective in treating the disease or have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that require us to cease further development of the product candidate. The cost to take a product candidate through clinical trials is dependent upon, among other things, the disease indications, the timing, the size and dosing schedule of each clinical trial, the number of patients enrolled in each trial and the speed at which patients are enrolled and treated. We could incur increased product development costs if we experience delays in clinical trial enrollment, delays in the evaluation of clinical trial results or delays in regulatory approvals. Some products that are likely to result from our research and development projects are based on new technologies and new therapeutic approaches that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of products may be more rigorous than for conventional products. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the nature and length of the efforts to complete such products as we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with any products that we develop based upon these new technologies or therapeutic approaches. In addition, ultimate approval for commercial manufacturing and marketing of our products is dependent on the FDA or applicable approval body in the country for which approval is being sought, adding further uncertainty to estimated costs and completion dates. Significant delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Due to the variability in the length of time necessary to develop a product, the uncertainties related to the estimated cost of the projects and ultimate ability to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, accurate and meaningful estimates of the ultimate cost to bring our product candidates to market are not available. We budget and monitor our research and development costs by type or category, rather than by project on a comprehensive or fully allocated basis. Significant categories of costs include personnel, clinical, third party research and development services and laboratory supplies. In addition, a significant portion of our research and development expenses is not tracked by project as it benefits multiple projects or our technology platform. Consequently, fully loaded research and development cost summaries by project are not available. Given the uncertainties related to development, we are currently unable to reliably estimate when, if ever, our product candidates will generate revenue and cash flows. We do not expect to receive net cash inflows from any of our major research and development projects until a product candidate becomes a profitable commercial product. 52 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 14% to $155.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 and decreased eight percent to $180.6 million in 2005 from $196.6 million in 2004. The decrease in both 2006 and 2005 was primarily the result of reduced sales and marketing expenses associated with the transfer of the U.S. commercialization rights for INTEGRILIN to SGP as of September 1, 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 include stock based compensation expense of approximately $18.9 million related to the adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. Restructuring In October 2006, we announced a program to further align resources with our current corporate priorities of advancing VELCADE and accelerating the clinical pipeline by lowering investment in discovery and supporting areas. As part of our program, we are reducing in house research and development technologies and headcount in areas where the work can now be outsourced effectively, and we also scaled back infrastructure supporting these activities. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we announced a 2005 strategy refinement focused on advancing key growth assets, including VELCADE, our clinical and preclinical pipeline of oncology and inflammation molecules and our oncology focused discovery organization. As part of our refined strategy, we took a series of steps, building on our restructured relationship with SGP, which together reduced research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006. We reduced the size of our company from approximately 1,500 employees at the end of 2004 to approximately 1,100 at the end of 2005, by managing attrition, eliminating INTEGRILIN sales and marketing positions, and reducing the number of positions in our inflammation discovery and business support groups. In December 2002 and June 2003, we took steps as part of our 2003 restructuring plan to focus our resources on drug development and commercialization. Our restructuring plan included consolidation of research and development facilities, overall headcount reduction and streamlining of discovery and development projects. During 2006, we recorded a total of $20.4 million of restructuring charges under all of our restructuring initiatives. We recorded restructuring charges of approximately $5.2 million under the 2006 restructuring program primarily related to employee termination benefits. Costs of termination benefits relate to severance packages, outplacement services and career counseling for employees affected by restructuring. We also recorded restructuring charges in 2006 of approximately $1.2 million under the 2005 restructuring plan, primarily related to the impairment charges for leasehold improvements that were abandoned at facilities, offset by a credit resulting from the earlier than anticipated sublease of one of the vacated buildings at a higher rate per square foot than we had originally estimated. We recorded restructuring charges of approximately $14.0 million in 2006 under the 2003 restructuring plan, primarily related to the lease termination payment for our vacated facility in Cambridge, England. During 2005, we recorded a total of $77.1 million of restructuring charges for our 2005 and 2003 restructuring plans. We recorded restructuring charges of approximately $42.5 million under the 2005 restructuring plan, primarily related to the remaining rental obligation, net of sublease income, of vacated facilities, the impairment charges for leasehold improvements that were abandoned at such facilities and employee termination benefits for the employees affected by the transfer of the U.S. commercialization rights to INTEGRILIN to SGP, as well as the headcount reductions within inflammation discovery and business support groups. We recorded approximately $34.6 million of restructuring charges in 2005 under our 2003 restructuring plan. This charge included $30.6 million of additional facilities expense reflecting changes in our estimates of the length of time it would take to sublease certain vacated properties based upon our continuing review of current real estate market conditions. 53 We estimate that of the remaining restructuring liabilities under all restructuring initiatives at December 31, 2006, we will pay approximately $25.5 million in 2007 and $42.0 million thereafter through 2014. We expect to record additional restructuring charges in 2007 of between $15.0 million to $25.0 million. These charges relate to certain facilities that we decided to abandon in November 2006, but will not be vacated until 2007, as well as net present value adjustments on facilities charged to restructuring in prior years. In connection with the decision to abandon the facilities in 2007, we revised the useful lives of the leasehold improvements at these facilities in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. We recorded additional amortization expense of approximately $3.8 million in research and development expense related to our decision. We are still evaluating the need or opportunity for further facilities consolidation associated with the 2006 restructuring initiative and the total future restructuring charges for facility consolidation are dependent upon the nature and timing of the final decisions we make. As we continue to evaluate strategic alternatives, including potential facilities consolidation in connection with our programs, significant restructuring charges could occur in future periods. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangible assets of $34.0 million in 2006 was relatively unchanged from 2005 of $34.0 million and increased one percent from 2004 to 2005. Amortization in 2006, 2005 and 2004 primarily related to specifically identified intangible assets from the COR acquisition. We will continue to amortize the specifically identified intangible assets from our COR acquisition through 2015. We expect to incur amortization expense of approximately $34.0 million for each of the next five years. Investment Income Investment income increased 6% to $31.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 and increased 159% to $29.1 million in 2005 from $11.2 million in 2004. The increase in 2006 was primarily attributable to a higher average balance of invested funds combined with a $3.1 million gain recognized in December 2006 upon the settlement of the class action lawsuit of WorldCom, Inc. and an additional realized gain of approximately $2.9 million in October 2006 upon the final settlement and receipt of the escrowed portion of the TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or TransForm, sales proceeds. The increase in 2005 was primarily attributable to the realized gain of approximately $10.5 million recognized upon the sale of our cost method investment in TransForm combined with the lower realized losses recognized in 2005 as compared to 2004. Interest Expense Interest expense increased 6% to $11.1 million in 2006 from the 2005 expense of $10.4 million and decreased 2% in 2005 from the 2004 expense of $10.7 million. The increase in 2006 is primarily due to increased interest expense under our 2.25% notes combined with the amortization of deferred financing costs incurred in connection with the sale of our 2.25% notes. Other income We recorded other income of approximately $22.9 million in 2006 upon the receipt of $19.5 million in connection with the termination of the support agreement that we entered into in connection with a proposed acquisition of AnorMED, Inc. in October 2006 and the recognition of a deferred gain of $3.4 million in July 2006 from the sale of assets to GeneLogic, Inc. in 2004. 54 Gain on Sale of Equity Interest in Joint Venture Through our acquisition of LeukoSite, we became a party to a joint venture partnership, Millennium and ILEX Partners, L.P., or M&I, for development of Campath (alemtuzumab) humanized monoclonal antibody. We sold our equity interest in M&I and in consideration for the sale, during the first quarter of 2004, we recorded the final $40.0 million gain related to our sale of this equity interest based upon the achievement of predetermined 2004 sales targets of Campath. We will be entitled to additional payments from ILEXs successor, Genzyme Corporation, if sales of Campath in the United States exceed specified annual thresholds. However, we currently do not expect that these thresholds will be achieved and, therefore, we are unlikely to receive future additional payments related to Campath. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses, to make capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and to pay debt service, including principal and interest and capital lease payments. We have and may in the future lose money in these investments and our ability to liquidate these investments is in some cases very limited. We may also owe our partners milestone payments and royalties. We also have committed to fund development costs incurred by some of our collaborators. We have funded our cash requirements primarily through the following: product sales of VELCADE; payments from our strategic collaborators, including equity investments, license fees, milestone payments and research funding; our co promotion relationship with SGP for the sale of INTEGRILIN through August 31, 2005; royalty payments related to the sales of our products; and equity and debt financings in the public markets. In the future, we expect to continue to fund our cash requirements from some or all of these sources as well as from sales of other products, subject to receiving regulatory approval. We are entitled to additional committed research and development funding under some of our strategic alliances. We believe the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash are: revenues from sales of VELCADE, INTEGRILIN and other products and services for which we may obtain marketing approval in the future or which are sold by companies that may owe us royalty, milestone, distribution or other payments on account of such products; the success of our clinical and preclinical development programs; our ability to enter into additional strategic collaborations and to maintain existing collaborations as well as the success of such collaborations; and the receptivity of the capital markets to financings by biopharmaceutical companies generally and to financings by our company specifically. As of December 31, 2006, we had $894.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. This excludes $7.6 million of interest bearing marketable securities classified as restricted cash on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2006, which primarily serve as collateral for letters of credit securing leased facilities. 55 Our significant capital resources and sources and uses of cash are as follows: December 31, (in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 894,349 $ 645,588 $ 700,407 Working capital 790,135 576,501 660,751 Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (19,185 ) $ (56,065 ) $ (173,755 ) Investing activities (38,152 ) 32,988 117,904 Financing activities 264,557 13,713 14,397 Capital expenditures (included in investing activities above) (8,789 ) (12,466 ) (49,842 ) Cash Flows The principal use of cash in operating activities in both 2006 and 2005 was to fund our net loss. In December 2006, we achieved a $25.0 million milestone related to sales of VELCADE outside of the United States, which we collected in January 2007. In September 2005, we received approximately $85.5 million from SGP, consisting of the upfront license fee associated with the U.S. commercialization rights for INTEGRILIN, as well as payment for the one time sale of existing INTEGRILIN raw materials and finished goods inventory. In January 2005, we paid SGP approximately $49.3 million for advances SGP had made to COR for inventory purchases in prior years. Cash flows from operations can vary significantly due to various factors including changes in accounts receivable, as well as changes in accounts payable and accrued expenses. The average collection period of our accounts receivable can vary and is dependent on various factors, including the type of revenue and the payment terms related to those revenues. The principal use of cash in investing activities in 2006 was to invest in marketable securities, partially offset by the receipt of approximately $2.9 million in October 2006 upon the final settlement of the escrowed portion of the sale proceeds from TransForm. Investing activities provided cash of $33.0 million in 2005, primarily from the sales and maturities of marketable securities. In April 2005, we received proceeds of approximately $10.6 million upon the sale of our cost method investment in TransForm. Financing activities provided cash of $264.6 million in 2006, primarily from the sale of our 2.25% notes in November 2006, and $13.7 million in 2005, primarily from the purchases of common stock by our employees. We used cash of approximately $5.9 million in 2006 to pay off our 4.5% convertible senior notes in accordance with the payment terms. We also used cash in financing activities to make principal payments on our capital leases in all periods presented. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and the anticipated cash payments from our product sales, current strategic alliances and royalties will be sufficient to support our expected operations, fund our debt service and capital lease obligations and fund our capital commitments for at least the next several years. Contractual Obligations Our major outstanding contractual obligations relate to our facilities leases, convertible notes, and capital lease financings. 56 As of December 31, 2006, our convertible notes aggregated to $349.6 million in principal amount outstanding, of which $99.6 million is classified as short term and mature in January and March 2007. All three issues of notes require semi annual interest payments through maturity. All required interest payments have been made to date. As of December 31, 2006, these notes consisted of: $250.0 million of the 2.25% notes due November 15, 2011; $83.3 million of principal of 5.5% convertible subordinated notes which were due and paid on January 15, 2007. These notes were convertible into Millennium common stock at any time prior to maturity at a price equal to $42.07 per share, or the 5.5% notes; and $16.3 million of principal of 5.0% convertible subordinated notes due March 1, 2007, that are convertible into Millennium common stock at any time prior to maturity at a price equal to $34.21 per share, or the 5.0% notes. In November 2006, we completed a sale of the 2.25% notes, which resulted in net proceeds of approximately $242.2 million. The notes bear interest at the rate of 2.25% per year on the principal amount accruing from November 15, 2006 and payable semiannually in arrears in cash on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning May 15, 2007. The 2.25% notes are convertible into our common stock based upon a conversion rate of 64.6465 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $15.47 per share, subject to adjustment. The 2.25% notes are convertible only in the following circumstances: if the closing price of our common stock exceeds 120% of the conversion price within a specified period; if specified distributions to holders of our common stock are made or specified corporate transactions occur; if the average trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the 2.25% notes is less than 98% of the average conversion value of the 2.25% notes within a specified period, which we refer to as the parity trigger; or during the last three months prior to maturity of the 2.25% notes. Upon conversion, we have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock to satisfy our conversion obligation. The parity trigger represents an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation and separate accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. At issuance and as of December 31, 2006, we estimated that the value of the parity trigger was not material to our consolidated results of operations and financial position. In January 2007, we repaid our 5.5% notes in full for approximately $83.3 million in accordance with the payment terms. 57 Below is a table which presents our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006: Payments Due by Period (in thousands) Total Less than One Year 1 2 Years 3 4 Years 5 Years and Beyond Long term debt obligations, including interest payments $ 378,170 $ 105,697 $ 11,599 $ 260,874 $ Capital lease obligations, including rental and interest payments 290,808 16,155 34,098 34,366 206,189 Operating lease obligations 143,753 34,068 52,910 34,995 21,780 Long term supply contracts 107,090 29,600 47,250 20,160 10,080 External collaborations 2,871 2,779 92 Total $ 922,692 $ 188,299 $ 145,949 $ 350,395 $ 238,049 In addition to the amounts reflected in the table above, in the future we may owe royalties and other contingent payments to our collaborators, licensors and other parties based on the achievement of product sales and specified other objectives and milestones. As of December 31, 2006, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.4 billion to offset future federal taxable income, expiring in 2007 through 2026, and $0.4 billion to offset future state taxable income expiring in 2007 through 2011. We also have federal and net state tax credits of approximately $104.3 million to offset federal and state income taxes, both of which expire beginning in 2007. Due to the degree of uncertainty related to the ultimate use of the operating loss carryforwards and tax credits, we have fully reserved these tax benefits. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We manage our fixed income investment portfolio in accordance with our Policy for Securities Investments, or Investment Policy, that has been approved by our Board of Directors. The primary objectives of our Investment Policy are to preserve principal, maintain a high degree of liquidity to meet operating needs, and obtain competitive returns subject to prevailing market conditions. Investments are made primarily in investment grade corporate bonds with effective maturities of three years or less, asset backed debt securities and U.S. government agency debt securities. These investments are subject to risk of default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. These investments also are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $11.0 million decrease in the fair value of our investments as of December 31, 2006. However, due to the conservative nature of our investments and relatively short effective maturities of debt instruments, interest rate risk is mitigated. Our Investment Policy specifies credit quality standards for our investments and limits the amount of exposure from any single issue, issuer or type of investment. We do not own derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of our 2.25% notes, 5.0% notes and 5.5% notes approximates their carrying value. The interest rates on our convertible notes and capital lease obligations are fixed and therefore not subject to interest rate risk. We receive distribution fees from OBL based on worldwide sales of VELCADE outside of the U.S. As a result, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily EURO. Movement in foreign currency exchange rates could cause royalty revenue to vary significantly in future periods. As of December 31, 2006, we did not have any financing arrangements that were not reflected in our balance sheet. 58 
</SECTION>
