<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: ROBBINS & MYERS, INC.
CIK: 0000084290
SIC: 3561
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20120831
FILE DATE: 20121023
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K as well as other portions of this Form 10 K. The words believe, expect, anticipate, project, and similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements were made. Forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. The most significant of these risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in this Form 10 K (included in Item 1A Risk Factors). Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. OVERVIEW Robbins & Myers, Inc. is an Ohio corporation. As used in this report, the terms Company, Robbins & Myers, R&M, we, our, or us mean Robbins & Myers, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates another meaning. We are a leading supplier of engineered equipment and systems for critical applications in global energy, industrial, chemical and pharmaceutical markets. We attribute our success to our close and continuing interaction with customers, our manufacturing, sourcing and application engineering expertise and our ability to serve customers globally. Our fiscal 2012 sales were approximately $1,035 million. On August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (NOV, National Oilwell Varco) in an all cash transaction. Under the terms of the proposed transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Robbins & Myers, Inc. and NOV, upon the closing of the merger, our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share of Robbins & Myers they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval from the shareholders of Robbins & Myers, Inc. On October 9, 2012, we received a request for additional information and documents from the U.S. Justice Department (often referred to as a second request) in connection with the proposed merger. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 (fiscal 2012), we changed the composition of our reportable segments to reflect organizational, management and operational changes implemented in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company now reports results in two business segments consisting of Energy Services and Process & Flow Control. The Company previously reported its operations under the Fluid Management segment and the Process Solutions segment. On January 10, 2011 (the acquisition date), we completed our acquisition of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3), by means of a merger, such that T 3 became a wholly owned subsidiary of Robbins & Myers, Inc. The purchase price for acquiring all of the outstanding common stock of T 3 was approximately $618.4 million, which consisted of approximately $106.3 million in cash, $492.1 million as the fair value of our common shares and $20.0 million as the fair value of options and warrants issued to replace T 3 grants for pre merger services and warrants. The operating results of T 3 are included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date within our Energy Services segment. On April 29, 2011, we divested our Romaco businesses. The results of our Romaco segment are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Information concerning our sales, income before interest and income taxes (EBIT), identifiable assets by segment and sales and tangible assets by geographic area for the years ended August 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is set forth in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included at Item 8 and is incorporated herein by reference. Energy Services Segment Our Energy Services business segment, which includes T 3, designs, manufactures, markets, repairs and services equipment and systems used in upstream oil and gas exploration and recovery, production and completion, pipeline transmission infrastructure and a variety of other industrial applications. Our Energy Services segment includes products and services sold under the Robbins & Myers Energy Systems&reg; and T 3&reg; brands. Our products and systems include power sections for drilling motors, blow out preventers (BOPs), down hole progressing cavity pumps, drive systems and automation, wellhead equipment, 1 frac manifolds and trees, high pressure engineered gate valves, and a broad line of ancillary equipment for the energy sector, such as rod guides, rod and tubing rotators, pipeline closure products and valves. Sales, Marketing and Distribution. We sell our hydraulic drilling power sections, BOPs, pressure control systems, wellhead equipment, manifolds and gate valves through a direct sales force. We sell our tubing wear prevention products, down hole pump systems, closure products and industrial pumps through major oilfield and industrial distributors as well as our direct sales force and service centers in key oilfield locations. Backlog at August 31, 2012 was $169.7 million, compared with $121.3 million at August 31, 2011. Aftermarket Sales. Aftermarket sales consist principally of selling replacement components for our pumps, as well as the relining of power section stators, repair and field services for BOPs, manifolds and valves for the energy market. Aftermarket sales represented approximately 30% of the sales in this segment in fiscal 2012, compared with 34% in fiscal 2011. However, replacement items, such as power section rotors and stators and down hole pumps are components of larger systems that wear out after regular usage. These are often sold as components in larger systems and are not identifiable by us as aftermarket sales. Markets and Competition. We believe we are one of the leading independent manufacturers of power sections, BOPs, pressure control systems, wellhead equipment and frac manifolds and trees, in the markets we serve. We are also a leading manufacturer of rod guides, pipeline closure products and down hole progressing cavity pumps worldwide. While the markets we serve are generally highly fragmented and also involve various competing technologies, we believe that with our leading brands and products, we are effectively positioned to serve customers with an attractive range of products and services. Process & Flow Control Segment Our Process & Flow Control business segment designs, manufactures and services glass lined reactors and storage vessels, industrial progressing cavity pumps, mixing equipment, and related products such as grinders for applications involving the flow of viscous, abrasive and solid laden slurries and sludge, standard and customized fluid agitation equipment and systems. We also provide alloy steel vessels, heat exchangers, other fluid systems, wiped film evaporators and packaged process systems. In addition, we provide customized fluoropolymer lined fittings, vessels and accessories. The primary markets served by this segment are the industrial, chemical, pharmaceutical, wastewater treatment, food and beverage, specialty chemical and other end markets. Primary brands are Pfaudler&reg;, Moyno&reg;, Chemineer&reg; and Edlon&reg;. Sales, Marketing and Distribution. We primarily manufacture, market, sell and service glass lined reactors, storage vessels, industrial pumps, thermal and other fluid processing systems through our direct sales and service force, as well as manufacturers representatives in certain geographic markets. Industrial mixers and agitation equipment products are primarily sold through manufacturers representatives. Backlog at August 31, 2012 was $138.1 million compared with $129.8 million at August 31, 2011. Aftermarket Sales. Aftermarket products and services, which include field service, replacement parts, accessories and reconditioning of glass lined vessels, are an important part of our glass lined reactor product line. Our aftermarket capabilities and presence allow us to service our large installed base of Pfaudler&reg; glass lined vessels and to meet the needs of our customers who outsource various maintenance and service functions. In addition, we refurbish and sell used, glass lined vessels. Our aftermarket business for the Chemineer&reg; and Moyno&reg; lines primarily consists of selling replacement parts. Aftermarket sales represented approximately 37% of this segments sales in fiscal 2012, compared with 38% in fiscal 2011. Markets and Competition. We believe we have the number one worldwide market position in sales value for quality glass lined reactors and storage vessels, competing principally with smaller European companies. Competition in Europe has increased resulting in increasing pricing pressure. There are also Asian suppliers who compete in local markets based on a lower quality specification. We are also one of the leading suppliers of progressing cavity pumps for industrial applications, and also for mixing equipment for certain markets. There are several worldwide competitors in these markets and there are also various alternative technologies related to the markets we serve. Our Edlon&reg; brand primarily competes by offering highly engineered products and products made for special needs, and tends to compete with other niche suppliers. 2 Other Consolidated Information BACKLOG Our total order backlog was $307.8 million at August 31, 2012 compared with $251.1 million at August 31, 2011. We expect to ship substantially all of our backlog during the next 12 months. CUSTOMERS No customer represented more than 10% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2012, 2011 or 2010. See Note 16 Business Segments and Geographic Information, included in Item 8 of this Report for financial information by geographic region. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials are purchased from a broad supplier base that is often located in the same regions as our facilities. Over the last three years the prices of raw materials, especially steel, have been volatile. Our supply of steel and other raw materials and components has been adequate and available without significant delivery delays. No events are known or anticipated that would change the availability of raw materials. No one vendor provides more than 10% of our supplied materials. GENERAL We own a number of patents relating to the design and manufacture of our products. While we consider these patents important, we believe that the successful manufacture and sale of our products depends more upon application expertise and manufacturing skills. We are committed to maintaining high quality manufacturing standards and have completed ISO certification at many of our facilities. During fiscal 2012, we spent approximately $7.0 million on research and development activities compared with $5.9 million in fiscal 2011 and $4.8 million in fiscal 2010. These amounts do not include engineering development costs incurred in conjunction with fulfilling custom customer orders and executing customer projects. Compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment is not anticipated to have any material effect upon the Companys capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. At August 31, 2012, we had 3,473 employees, which included approximately 380 employees at majority owned joint ventures. Approximately 270 of our U.S. employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements at various locations. In addition, approximately 510 of our non U.S. employees were covered by government mandated agreements in their respective countries. The agreement covering our Dayton, Ohio, manufacturing facility expires in fiscal 2013. The Company considers labor relations at each of its locations to be generally good. CERTIFICATIONS Peter C. Wallace, our President and Chief Executive Officer, certified to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on February 6, 2012 that, as of that date, he was not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSEs Corporate Governance Listing Standards. We have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) the certifications of Mr. Wallace and Kevin J. Brown, our Interim Chief Financial Officer, that are required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 relating to the financial statements and disclosures contained in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended August 31, 2012. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available free of charge on or through our web site, at www.robn.com, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also post on our web site the following corporate governance documents: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and the Charters of our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees. Written copies of the foregoing documents may also be requested from our Corporate Secretary, Robbins & Myers, Inc., 10586 Highway 75 North, Willis, TX 77378. 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We can neither predict these new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements. Our announcement that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco in an all cash transaction could adversely affect our business. On August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco in an all cash transaction. Upon the closing of the merger, each of our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval from our Companys shareholders. Expected synergies associated with the transaction may require the merger of certain of our operations into those of NOV, which could result in the termination of a number of our employees and restructuring of certain of our operations. The announcement and pending nature of the transaction could potentially cause disruptions in our business (including certain merger related operational contractual restrictions and additional legal and regulatory proceedings), and have an adverse effect on our relationship with our customers, vendors, and employees. In addition, it could result in diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns, employee retention issues, added merger related costs, and the possibility that alternative takeover proposals will or will not be made, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial results, and operations. The consummation of the proposed merger transaction with National Oilwell Varco is not certain, and its delay or failure could adversely affect our business. There is no assurance that the proposed merger transaction with National Oilwell Varco will occur. In addition, we cannot predict the exact timing of the consummation of the transaction. Consummation of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals and the approval of our Companys shareholders. A number of the conditions are not within our control. We cannot assure that all closing conditions will be satisfied, that we will receive the required governmental approvals, or that the transaction will be successfully consummated. If the transaction is not completed, the price of our common shares may change to the extent that the current market price of our common shares reflects the assumption that the transaction will be completed. In addition, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Under certain circumstances, upon termination of the merger agreement, we could be required to pay a termination fee of $75 million to National Oilwell Varco, or its costs and expenses. Some of our end markets are cyclical, which may cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in operating results due to business cycles. We sell our products principally to energy, chemical, industrial and pharmaceutical markets. While we serve a variety of markets, the purchase of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. and the sale of our Romaco businesses in fiscal 2011 have resulted in a significant portion of our business being focused in the energy market. A significant downturn in any of these markets, especially energy, could cause a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. In addition, there is a risk that if our future operating results significantly decline, it could impair our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Our businesses are adversely affected by economic downturns and volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could adversely impact the funded status of our pension plans. While economic conditions improved in fiscal 2012, business conditions could worsen in the future. Furthermore, our backlog may not be converted to revenue due to customer order cancellations. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, worldwide, or in the specific end markets we serve. In particular, the European debt crisis and the instability and uncertainty relating to the Euro could constrain government budgets, limit the financing available to our suppliers and customers and adversely affect the economies and capital markets in Europe and other 4 geographies, which could, in turn, adversely affect demand for our products, the availability of supplies and the value of our Euro denominated assets and obligations. If our markets significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our share price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn. In addition, our defined benefit pension plans invest in fixed income and equity securities to fund related benefit obligations under those plans. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our funding obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of our plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our future funding obligations and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows over the long term. Our restructuring activities could affect our business and financial results. To improve operational efficiency, we occasionally initiate programs to streamline operations and reduce expenses, including measures such as reductions in workforce and discretionary spending. We generally expect these initiatives to generate significant savings that we can invest in our growth initiatives and long term value enhancing strategy. Our failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement from these initiatives could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements, which could result in the loss of customers, loss of market share and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Approximately 43% of our sales are to customers outside the United States, and we are subject to economic and political and currency fluctuation risks or devaluation associated with international operations. Approximately 43% of our fiscal 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S., and we maintain primary operations in 15 countries. Conducting business outside the U.S. is subject to risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations and the possibility of hyper inflationary conditions; changes in regional, political or economic conditions including trade protection measures, such as tariffs or import/export restrictions; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently, or may emerge, as competitors in countries in which we have operations; partial or total expropriation; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and international sentiment towards the U.S. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. Furthermore, unexpected and dramatic devaluations of currencies in developing or emerging markets could negatively affect the value of our earnings from, and of the assets located in, those markets. Regulatory and legal developments including changes to United States taxation rules, health care reform, offshore drilling and hydraulic fracturing process legislation, governmental greenhouse gases emission restrictions and climate change initiatives could negatively affect our financial performance. Our operations and the markets we compete in are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations, including taxation rules, health care reform, offshore drilling and hydraulic fracturing process legislation, governmental greenhouse gases emission restrictions and climate change initiatives, may be adopted or become applicable to us or our customers. New regulations like the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may also increase our expenses and our customers requirements from us. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time and may increase our costs and reduce profitability. We cannot predict the form any such new laws or regulations will take or the impact these laws and regulations will have on our business or operations. However, significant changes in governmental laws and regulations could adversely affect our future results of operations. Adverse weather conditions in certain regions could adversely affect our operations. From time to time, hurricanes, typhoons and severe weather impact our operations. These storms and associated threats reduce the number of days on which we and our customers operate which results in lower revenues than we otherwise would have achieved. Our Canadian operations, particularly in the third quarter of each fiscal year, may vary greatly depending on the timing of break up, or the spring thaw, which annually results in a period in which conditions are not conducive to operations and could reduce our operations and revenues during the relevant period. 5 We must comply with a variety of import and export laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance as well as the consequences of failure to properly comply with such laws could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security and various foreign governmental agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international manufacturing operations and trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which certain of our products may be manufactured or sold or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of, obtaining products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of import export laws could result in enforcement actions and substantial financial penalties. Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, business partners or agents. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, business partners or agents that would violate U.S. and or non U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could cause us to incur significant legal fees and could damage our reputation. Competition in our markets could cause our sales to decrease. We face significant competition from a variety of competitors in our markets. In some markets, our competitors have greater resources than we do and in some cases we sell to our competitors. In addition, new competitors could enter our markets. Competitive pressures, including product quality, performance, price and service capabilities, and new technologies could adversely affect our competitive position, involving a loss of market share or decrease in prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. The nature of our products creates the possibility of product liability lawsuits, which could harm our business. As a global manufacturer of a broad range of equipment and systems for use in various markets, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third party manufacturers for components of our products. Although we have liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. We generally seek to obtain contractual indemnification from our third party suppliers, which is typically limited by its terms. In the event we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, it could harm our business. Our results of operations could vary based on the availability and cost of our raw materials. The prices of our raw materials may increase. The costs of raw materials used by us are affected by fluctuations in the price of metals such as steel. Our ability to obtain parts and raw materials from our suppliers is uncertain. We are engaged in a continuous, company wide effort to concentrate our purchases of parts and raw materials on fewer suppliers, and to obtain parts from low cost countries where possible. As this effort progresses, we are exposed to an increased risk of disruptions to our supply chain, which could have a significant effect on our operating results. 6 Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies or due to changes in accounting standards. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies could have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of this Report). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time, that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in accounting standards, including new interpretations and application of accounting standards, may change our reported financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been any impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, if we are unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses, or if market conditions for acquired businesses decline, if significant and prolonged negative industry or economic trends continue, if our stock price and market capitalization declines, or if future cash flow estimates decline, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. Our growth and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in our capital allocation and acquisition program. Additionally, an increase in the number of our outstanding common shares could adversely affect our common share price or dilute our earnings per share. We expect to continue our strategy of seeking to acquire add on businesses that broaden our existing businesses and our global reach, as well as, in the right circumstances, strategically pursuing larger, stand alone businesses that have the potential to either complement our existing businesses or allow us to pursue a new platform. However, there can be no assurance that we will find suitable businesses to purchase or that the associated price would be acceptable. If we are unsuccessful in the acquisition efforts, then our ability to grow could be adversely affected. In addition, a completed acquisition, may under perform relative to expectations, be unable to achieve synergies originally anticipated, or require the payment of additional expenses for assumed liabilities. Further, failure to allocate capital appropriately could also result in significant exposure to certain markets and geographies. Additionally, issuance of a significant number of common shares in connection with acquisitions may adversely affect our common share price or have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. These factors could potentially have an adverse impact on our operating profits and cash flows. Divestitures could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and have in the past, and may in the future, divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively affect our business, including the potentially dilutive effect on our earnings per share and other financial impacts, potential disputes with buyers and distraction of managements attention from core businesses. In addition, we have retained responsibility for, and in certain cases have agreed to, indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to the businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities and product liabilities claims. 7 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Set forth below is certain information relating to our principal operating facilities. We consider our properties, as well as the related machinery and equipment, to be suitable for their intended purposes. Manufacturing Sales/ Service Square Footage(In thousands) Owned Leased Function and size by segment: Energy Services 14 35 980 473 Process & Flow Control 13 3 2,144 179 North America South America Europe Asia/Australia Geographical locations by segment: Energy Services 43 3 1 2 Process & Flow Control 7 1 6 2 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS There are claims, suits and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business filed or pending against us. Although we cannot predict the outcome of such claims, suits and complaints with certainty, we do not believe that the disposition of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company is subject to an ongoing investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) regarding potential export controls violations arising from certain shipments by our Belgian subsidiary to one customer in Iran, Sudan and Syria in 2005 and 2006. We have cooperated with the investigation and in August 2012, we received a proposed joint settlement offer from DOJ and BIS. We have requested additional information from DOJ and BIS regarding the proposed settlement terms. We have accrued $1.8 million in connection with this matter and the potential settlement and cannot predict whether or when this matter will be settled or the specific terms of any settlement. In connection with the proposed merger with an affiliate of National Oilwell Varco, Inc., on August 13, 2012, August 17, 2012, and October 5, 2012, respectively, shareholder derivative and class action complaints were filed in the District Court of Montgomery County, Texas, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, and the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas against the Company, our directors, and National Oilwell Varco, Inc. and its affiliate. The complaints allege, among other things, that our directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Company and our shareholders and that National Oilwell Varco aided and abetted our directors alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints seek, among other things, injunctive relief, rescission of the merger agreement and the plaintiffs costs and disbursements in pursuing the actions, including reasonable attorneys and experts fees. On October 22, 2012, the plaintiff dismissed the action pending in Texas State Court with prejudice. The Company, our directors and each of the other named defendants are defending and will continue to defend the remaining lawsuits. We do not expect that these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations or completion of the merger. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 8 Executive Officers of the Registrant Peter C. Wallace, age 58, has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 12, 2004. From October 2001 to July 2004, Mr. Wallace was President and Chief Executive Officer of IMI Norgren Group (sophisticated motion and fluid control systems for original equipment manufacturers). He was employed by Rexnord Corporation (power transmission and conveying components) for 25 years serving as President and Group Chief Executive from 1998 until October 2001 and holding a variety of senior sales, marketing, and international positions prior thereto. Kevin J. Brown, age 54, was named our Interim Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller in December 2011. Prior to that, he was our Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since October 2006. He was our Vice President of Corporate Services, Investor Relations & Compliance from August 2006 to October 2006 and he was our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2000 to August 2006. Previously, he was our Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since December 1995. Prior to joining us, he was employed by the accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP for 15 years. Saeid Rahimian, age 54, was named Senior Vice President and President of our newly created Energy Services Group in October 2011. Prior to that, he was our Corporate Vice President and President, Fluid Management, since September 2005. He was Group Vice President and President of our R&M Energy Systems and Reactor Systems businesses from May 2004 to September 2005. He was President of our R&M Energy Systems business from 1998 to May 2004. Prior to 1998, he held various positions within Robbins & Myers, Inc. Aaron H. Ravenscroft, age 34, was appointed as Vice President and President of our newly created Process & Flow Control Group in September 2011. Prior to joining us, he was employed by Gardner Denver (manufacturer of highly engineered compressors and blowers for industrial applications) from December 2008 to September 2011, where he held various management positions, the most recent being Vice President of Industrial Products Europe. Prior to joining Gardner Denver, he was employed by Wabtec from 2003, where he held a series of management positions with increasing responsibility. Prior to 2003, he was employed by Janney Montgomery Scott. Jeffrey L. Halsey, age 60, has been our Vice President, Human Resources since July 2007. He held various Human Resources positions with ABB Ltd. from 1989 through 2006, most recently as Group Senior Vice President, Human Resources for ABB Inc. Prior to 1989, he was Vice President, Employee Relations for Pullman, Inc. Michael J. McAdams, age 63, has been our Treasurer since October 2005, and was Assistant Treasurer from September 2004 to September 2005. From 1999 to 2003, he was Treasurer of Evenflo Company, Inc. He was Treasurer of Advanced Silicon Materials, Inc. from 1996 to 1999. He was also employed by Armco, Inc. for 15 years, holding various finance positions, including the position of Assistant Treasurer. Linn S. Harson, age 47, has been our Secretary and General Counsel since January 2009. She has been with the law firm of Thompson Hine LLP since 1996, and a partner in the same firm since January 2005. The term of office of our executive officers is until our 2013 Annual Meeting of Directors (the date of which has not yet been finally determined) or until their respective successors are elected. 9 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES (A) Our common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RBN. The prices presented in the following table are the high and low closing prices for the common shares for the periods presented. Fiscal 2012 High Low DividendsDeclared andPaid per Share 1st Quarter ended Nov. 30, 2011 $ 53.20 $ 32.04 $ 0.0450 2nd Quarter ended Feb. 29, 2012 51.97 45.41 0.0500 3rd Quarter ended May 31, 2012 53.29 43.66 0.0500 4th Quarter ended Aug. 31, 2012 60.11 39.34 0.0500 Fiscal 2011 1st Quarter ended Nov. 30, 2010 $ 31.01 $ 24.43 $ 0.0425 2nd Quarter ended Feb. 28, 2011 43.08 31.87 0.0450 3rd Quarter ended May 31, 2011 45.99 38.94 0.0450 4th Quarter ended Aug. 31, 2011 54.79 38.93 0.0450 (B) As of September 30, 2012, we had 365 shareholders of record. (C) Dividends paid on common shares are presented in the table in Item 5(A). Our credit agreement includes certain covenants which restrict our payment of dividends, such that if immediately prior to, and after giving effect to, payment of such dividends, the consolidated leverage ratio is greater than 2.75 to 1.00, the aggregate of certain restricted purchases, redemptions and payments in the fiscal year does not exceed $25,000,000. In addition, the Merger Agreement with National Oilwell Varco limits our ability to pay dividends. (D) In fiscal 2012, there were no sales of unregistered securities. (E) A summary of the Companys repurchases of its common shares during the quarter ended August 31, 2012 is as follows: ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased (a) Average PricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms (b) June 1 30, 2012 531,550 $ 45.22 530,000 2,000,000 July 1 31, 2012 2,000,000 August 1 31, 2012 8,903 59.82 2,000,000 Total 540,453 530,000 (a) During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company purchased 10,453 of its common shares in connection with its employee benefit plans, including purchases associated with the vesting of restricted share awards. These purchases were not made pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan or program. The remaining 530,000 shares repurchased during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 were under our share repurchase programs. (See (b) below). (b) On October 6, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to 3.0 million of the Companys currently outstanding common shares. This is in addition to the approximately 1.0 million shares that were available to be repurchased under the October 27, 2008 authorization by the Board of Directors which had authorized 3.0 million shares to be repurchased (the Programs). Repurchases under both 10 Programs have generally been made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions not exceeding prevailing market prices, subject to regulatory considerations and market conditions, and have been funded from the Companys available cash balances. As of June 19, 2012, the Company had substantially completed all of the repurchases under the Programs. On completion of the repurchases eligible under the Programs, on June 25, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2.0 million of the Companys currently outstanding common shares (the June 2012 Program). Repurchases under the June 2012 Program will generally be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions not exceeding prevailing market prices, subject to regulatory considerations and market conditions, and will be funded from the Companys available cash and credit facilities. The June 2012 Program will expire when we have repurchased all the authorized shares, unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution. No repurchases were made in fiscal 2012 under the June 2012 Program. Under the terms of the definitive merger agreement with NOV, we have agreed not to repurchase our common shares under the June 2012 Program pending consummation of the merger. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Selected Financial Data (1) Robbins & Myers, Inc. and Subsidiaries (In thousands, except per share and employee data) The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Operating Results Orders (2) $ 1,100,984 $ 876,250 $ 521,948 $ 451,310 $ 667,621 Ending backlog (2) 307,790 251,064 136,798 94,838 186,697 Sales (2) 1,034,783 820,640 478,193 527,345 636,472 EBIT (2,3,4) 218,616 131,343 46,918 72,076 110,061 Net income from continuing operations Robbins & Myers, Inc. (3) 150,000 80,375 29,338 53,476 69,516 Net income per share from continuing operations (3): Basic $ 3.41 $ 1.96 $ 0.89 $ 1.61 $ 2.01 Diluted 3.39 1.94 0.89 1.61 2.00 Financial Condition Total assets $ 1,523,263 $ 1,582,966 $ 817,021 $ 796,854 $ 864,717 Total cash 166,925 230,606 149,213 108,169 123,405 Total long term debt (excluding portion due within one year) 24 93 265 30,435 Total equity 1,091,279 1,166,419 491,024 483,111 515,456 Other Data Cash flow from operating activities $ 160,432 $ 101,048 $ 88,483 $ 51,860 $ 89,560 Capital expenditures, net 29,464 28,307 10,611 17,694 22,114 Amortization 11,023 15,684 601 1,107 1,279 Depreciation 20,896 18,277 15,029 15,119 14,970 Dividends declared per share $ 0.1950 $ 0.1775 $ 0.1675 $ 0.1575 $ 0.1450 Number of employees 3,473 3,387 2,965 3,027 3,357 11 Notes to Selected Financial Data (1) We acquired all of the outstanding common stock and voting interests of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3) on January 10, 2011. We purchased the remaining 24 percent noncontrolling interest in our Process & Flow Control Group Chinese subsidiary on June 9, 2009. Our 51 percent owned subsidiary, GMM, acquired Mavag on January 10, 2008. These transactions impact the comparability of the Selected Financial Data. (2) On April 29, 2011, we disposed of our Romaco segment which was accounted for as a discontinued operation. Orders, ending backlog, sales and EBIT reflect only continuing operations. Other information includes our Romaco segment for periods owned. (3) A summary of the Companys special items, including inventory write up values charged to cost of sales, and their impact on diluted earnings per share is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands, except per share data) Pre tax impact of special items expense (income): NOV merger related costs $ 2,959 $ $ $ $ Cost of sales T 3 merger related inventory write up values 9,499 Other T 3 merger related costs: Employee termination costs 3,022 Backlog amortization 7,234 Professional fees and accelerated equity compensation 5,884 Restructuring costs including severance 1,012 2,764 Net facility sale gains (835 ) Total special items $ 2,959 $ 26,651 $ 2,764 $ $ (835 ) (Decrease) increase in net income due to special items $ (1,923 ) $ (18,058 ) $ (2,764 ) $ $ 543 (Decrease) increase in diluted earnings per share due to special items $ (0.04 ) $ (0.44 ) $ (0.08 ) $ $ 0.02 (4) The Companys operating performance is evaluated using several measures. One of those measures, EBIT, is income before interest and income taxes and is reconciled to net income on our Consolidated Statement of Income. We evaluate performance of our business segments and allocate resources based on EBIT. EBIT is not, however, a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as a measure of our operating results. EBIT is not a measure of cash available for use by management. 12 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of highly engineered, application critical equipment and systems for the energy, industrial, chemical and pharmaceutical markets worldwide. With our acquisition of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3) on January 10, 2011 (the acquisition date), we are expanding and complementing our energy business in our Energy Services segment, and creating a stronger strategic platform with better scale to support future growth. We attribute our success to our close and continuing interaction with customers, our manufacturing, sourcing and application engineering expertise and our ability to serve customers globally. We have initiated programs to reduce our manufacturing footprint for specific product lines to improve asset utilization, and we have standardized more of the reactor system product offerings to leverage our supply chain, global manufacturing assets and functional resources. We are continuing to find ways to leverage strengths across the Company and identify new synergy opportunities. In fiscal 2013, we expect to continue our streamlining and profit margin expansion efforts in certain businesses and pursue our organic and strategic growth initiatives to improve our competitiveness, financial results, long term profitability and shareholder value. As more fully described in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (NOV, National Oilwell Varco), in an all cash transaction. Under the terms of the transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Robbins & Myers and NOV, upon the closing of the merger, our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share of Robbins & Myers they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval of our shareholders. On October 9, 2012, we received a request for additional information and documents from the U.S. Justice Department (often referred to as a second request) in connection with the proposed merger. Unless expressly noted to the contrary, all forward looking statements in the discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that follows relate to the Company on a stand alone basis and are not reflective of the impact of the proposed merger with NOV. We continued to experience positive results during fiscal 2012 in major geographic areas and end markets, with most products achieving revenue growth and improved margins driven by strong backlog at the beginning of fiscal 2012 and higher orders in fiscal 2012, along with benefits from our past restructuring and continuing cost containment initiatives. We are seeing our energy markets moderating, but remain at relatively high levels and continued growth in certain chemical and industrial markets. We are cautiously optimistic that with our order trends and record backlog in both our segments at the end of fiscal 2012, we will continue to see improved operating results in fiscal 2013. With approximately 43% of our sales outside the United States, we can be affected by changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currencies in non U.S. countries in which we operate. The impact on net income, sales and orders due to foreign exchange changes was not material for fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with related gains or losses reported as a separate component of our shareholders equity, except for Venezuela, which is reported following highly inflationary accounting rules under U.S. GAAP. The marginal weakening of most foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2012 did not materially impact our financial condition at the end of fiscal 2012 as compared with the end of fiscal 2011. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we changed the composition of our reportable segments to reflect organizational, management and operational changes implemented in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company now reports results in two business segments consisting of Energy Services and Process & Flow Control. The Company previously reported its operations under the Fluid Management segment and the Process Solutions segment. The businesses in our Energy Services segment provide mission critical products to customers in the upstream oil and gas markets for use in drilling and exploration, production and completion, and pipeline transmission infrastructure. Major products include power sections for drilling motors, blowout preventers, down hole progressing cavity pumps, drive systems and automation, wellhead equipment, frac manifolds and trees, high pressure engineered gate valves and a broad line of ancillary equipment for the energy sector, such as rod guides, rod and tubing rotators, pipeline closure products and valves. Our Energy Services segment includes products and services sold under the Robbins & Myers Energy Systems&reg; and T 3&reg; brands. Our Process & Flow Control segment targets industrial customers in the industrial chemical, pharmaceutical, wastewater treatment, food and beverage, and other end markets. Products include glass lined reactors and thermal heat exchangers, progressing cavity pumps for industrial applications and surface transfer of viscous fluids, mixing equipment and engineered systems used to filter and process various liquids and materials. Primary brands in our Process & 13 Flow Control segment include Pfaudler&reg;, Moyno&reg;, Chemineer&reg; and Edlon&reg;. We believe that this strategic realignment, which is reflected in our financial reporting for all periods presented, will enable us to have greater focus on our primary end markets while creating additional opportunities to more efficiently serve common customers and to leverage strengths across product groups. As mentioned above, on January 10, 2011, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock and voting interest of T 3. The operating results of T 3 are included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date in our Energy Services segment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we divested our Romaco businesses (Romaco segment). This divestiture was part of the Companys portfolio management process and operating strategy to simplify the business and improve its profit profile, and to focus on growing the Company around core competencies. The results of operations for our Romaco segment are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. With the sale of the Romaco segment and our realignment as discussed above, our business consists of two market focused segments: Energy Services and Process & Flow Control. Energy Services. Order levels from customers served by our Energy Services segment moderated in the second half of fiscal 2012, but continued to show year over year improvements in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Our primary objectives for this segment are to grow sales by increasing our capacity to meet current demand, expanding our geographic reach, improving our selling and product management capabilities, commercializing new products in our niche market sectors, developing new customer relationships, and expanding our aftermarket business. Our Energy Services business segment designs, manufactures, markets, repairs and services equipment and systems including power sections for drilling motors, blow out preventers, down hole progressing cavity pumps, drive systems and controllers, wellhead equipment, frac manifolds and trees, high pressure engineered gate valves, and a broad line of ancillary equipment for the energy sector, such as rod guides, rod and tubing rotators, pipeline closure products and valves. These products are primarily used in upstream oil and gas exploration and recovery applications. Process & Flow Control. Our Process & Flow Control segment orders improved in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011, achieving the highest levels since fiscal 2008. Pricing began to show improvement in fiscal 2012, but has not fully recovered, especially in the European chemical markets. Our primary objectives for this segment are to reduce operating costs in developed regions, increase manufacturing capabilities in low cost areas, standardize our products to increase operating flexibility, integrate our global operations and increase our focus on aftermarket opportunities. Our Process & Flow Control business segment designs, manufactures and services glass lined reactors and storage vessels, customized equipment and systems and customized fluoropolymer lined fittings, industrial progressing cavity pumps and complementary products such as grinders and customized fluid agitation equipment and systems primarily for the pharmaceutical, industrial and specialty chemical markets. 14 Results of Operations The following tables present components of our Consolidated Statement of Income and segment information for our continuing operations. Consolidated 2012 2011 2010 Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 61.1 62.8 66.8 Gross profit 38.9 37.2 33.2 SG&A expenses 17.5 19.1 22.8 Other expense 0.3 2.1 0.6 EBIT 21.1 % 16.0 % 9.8 % By Segment 2012 2011 2010 Energy Services: (In millions, except percents) Sales $ 665.5 $ 477.2 $ 201.6 EBIT 198.0 131.0 61.7 EBIT % 29.8 % 27.4 % 30.6 % Process & Flow Control: Sales $ 369.3 $ 343.4 $ 276.6 EBIT 41.4 26.8 4.9 EBIT % 11.2 % 7.8 % 1.8 % Consolidated: Sales $ 1,034.8 $ 820.6 $ 478.2 EBIT 218.6 131.3 46.9 EBIT % 21.1 % 16.0 % 9.8 % The comparability of the operating results has been impacted by NOV merger related costs in fiscal 2012 and T 3 merger related costs in fiscal 2011, as well as restructuring costs in fiscal 2011 and 2010. See Note 7 Statement of Income Information in Item 8 of this Report for further discussion. In addition, the comparability of the segment data is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to the translation of non U.S. dollar denominated subsidiary results into U.S. dollars, acquisition of T 3 (included in our Energy Services segment) on January 10, 2011, as well as general economic conditions in the end markets we serve. The Companys operating performance is evaluated using several measures. One of those measures, EBIT, is income before interest and income taxes and is reconciled to net income on our Consolidated Statement of Income. We evaluate performance of our business segments and allocate resources based on EBIT. EBIT is not, however, a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as a measure of our operating results. EBIT is not a measure of cash available for use by management. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2012 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2011 Net Sales Consolidated net sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 were $1,034.8 million, or $214.1 million higher than fiscal 2011 net sales, an increase of 26%. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the T 3 acquisition, net sales increased by $100.8 million, or 16%, due to higher sales in both of our segments in fiscal 2012. The Energy Services segment, which includes T 3 results since January 10, 2011, had sales of $665.5 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $477.2 million in fiscal 2011. The T 3 acquisition contributed $127.0 million in additional sales over the prior year, with $78.4 million due to T 3 being owned for only a partial period of the prior year and the remaining due to strong demand in fiscal 2012, as discussed below. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and T 3 acquisition, sales in fiscal 2012 increased $64.1 million, or 21%. This volume increase was primarily due to higher customer demand resulting from higher oil prices worldwide in fiscal 2012 and increased expenditure for drilling activity as exploration and production companies invested to capture oil and 15 gas from shale formations in North America. Orders for this segment were impacted by the same factors and were $714.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $517.8 million in fiscal 2011. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, orders in fiscal 2012 grew $61.9 million, or 21%, due to strong market conditions. Ending backlog at August 31, 2012 was $169.7 million compared with $121.3 million at August 31, 2011. The Process & Flow Control segment had sales of $369.3 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $343.4 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $25.9 million, or 8%. Excluding currency impact, sales in fiscal 2012 increased $36.7 million, or 11%, from the prior year, reflecting improved market conditions in certain served end markets. Segment orders in fiscal 2012 continued to improve from fiscal 2011 and were $386.6 million, compared with $358.5 million in fiscal 2011. Excluding currency impact, orders increased $38.4 million, or 11%, in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011, reflecting improved demand in certain end markets outside Europe. Ending backlog at August 31, 2012 was $138.1 million compared with $129.8 million at August 31, 2011. Income Before Interest and Income Taxes (EBIT) Consolidated EBIT from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 was $218.6 million compared with $131.3 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $87.3 million. The T 3 business acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 contributed $42.3 million of the consolidated EBIT increase, including $5.9 million of T 3 merger related costs incurred at Corporate and $19.7 million of higher amortization related to customer backlog, severance costs and inventory write up values expense in the Energy Services segment which did not recur in fiscal 2012. The current year EBIT includes $3.0 million of expense related to the NOV merger. The remaining $48.0 million increase in consolidated EBIT was mainly attributable to the higher sales volume described above in all our business platforms and a favorable sales mix in our Energy Services segment. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. The Energy Services segment had EBIT of $198.0 million in fiscal 2012, compared with $131.0 million in the prior year, an increase of $67.0 million. The T 3 business acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 contributed $36.4 million of the increase. The prior year EBIT included merger related expenses of $19.7 million for higher amortization related to customer backlog, severance and expense due to inventory write up values. The remaining increase in EBIT of $30.6 million was mainly due to the higher sales volume described above and an improved product sales mix. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. The Process & Flow Control segment had EBIT of $41.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $26.8 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $14.6 million. The increase in EBIT was due principally to the higher sales volume in fiscal 2012 described above. Fiscal 2011 had $1.2 million of pension curtailment costs related to one of our U.S. operations and restructuring costs of $1.0 million related to our German operations, that did not recur in fiscal 2012. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. Corporate costs were $5.6 million lower in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Merger related costs, NOV in fiscal 2012 and T 3 in fiscal 2011, were $2.9 million lower. The remaining decrease is from lower compensation costs related to the departure of an executive officer in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, lower pension costs and foreign currency gains. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 30.9% for fiscal 2012 compared with 38.2% in fiscal 2011. The current year effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate in fiscal 2011, primarily due to audit settlements in fiscal 2012 and the related release of unrecognized tax benefit balances, as well as increased income in our foreign locations which have lower effective tax rates. Additionally, fiscal 2011 included the recording of an additional valuation allowance of $7.0 million for certain deferred tax assets in our Process & Flow Control segment. Net Income Our net income in fiscal 2012 was $150.0 million compared with $134.0 million in fiscal 2011, which includes income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $53.6 million (see Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report). Net income from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 was $150.0 million, compared with $80.4 million in fiscal 2011. The increase in fiscal 2012 net income from continuing operations was primarily driven by the contribution of the prior year T 3 acquisition for the full year, higher sales volume, favorable product mix, lower merger related charges and a lower effective tax rate. 16 Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2011 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Net Sales Consolidated net sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 were $820.6 million, or $342.4 million higher than fiscal 2010 net sales, an increase of 72%. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the T 3 acquisition, net sales increased by $152.4 million, or 32%, due to higher sales in both of our segments in fiscal 2011. The Energy Services segment, which included T 3 results since January 10, 2011, had sales of $477.2 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $201.6 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and T 3 acquisition, sales in fiscal 2011 increased $91.7 million, or 45%. The increase was primarily due to strong growth in horizontal rigs, as exploration and production companies invested to capture oil and gas from shale formations in North America. Orders for this segment were $517.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $218.4 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, orders in fiscal 2011 grew $78.4 million, or 36%, due to strong market conditions. Ending backlog at August 31, 2011, including T 3 backlog of $91.3 million, was $121.3 million compared with $27.1 million at August 31, 2010. The Process & Flow Control segment had sales of $343.4 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $276.6 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $66.8 million, or 24%. Excluding currency impact, sales in fiscal 2011 increased $60.7 million, or 22%, from the prior year, due to improving demand for capital goods in global chemical markets. Segment orders in fiscal 2011 continued to improve from fiscal 2010 and were $358.5 million, compared with $303.5 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency impact, orders increased $49.9 million, or 16%, in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, reflecting improved demand in certain end markets outside Europe. Ending backlog at August 31, 2011 was $129.8 million compared with $109.7 million at August 31, 2010. Income Before Interest and Income Taxes (EBIT) Consolidated EBIT from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 was $131.3 million compared with $46.9 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $84.4 million. Excluding the impacts of currency translation and operating results of T 3, consolidated EBIT in fiscal 2011 increased by $67.2 million. This increase in consolidated EBIT was mainly attributable to the higher sales volume described above in all our business platforms and a favorable sales mix in our Energy Services segment. We also experienced $1.8 million of lower restructuring charges in our Process & Flow Control segment in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. The Energy Services segment had EBIT of $131.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $61.7 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, EBIT for fiscal 2011 increased by $51.8 million, or 84%, due principally to the sales increase and a favorable product mix. The Process & Flow Control segment had EBIT of $26.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $4.9 million in fiscal 2010. This increase in EBIT resulted from higher sales volume in fiscal 2011, as well as lower restructuring charges of $1.8 million. Corporate costs were $6.8 million higher in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, primarily due to $5.9 million of costs associated with professional fees and accelerated stock compensation expense related to the T 3 merger transaction. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 38.2% for fiscal 2011 compared with 35.2% in fiscal 2010. The fiscal 2011 effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate in fiscal 2010, primarily due to the recording of an additional valuation allowance of $7.0 million for certain deferred tax assets in our Process & Flow Control segment. Excluding this impact, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate primarily due to certain U.S. permanent deductions and tax credits. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 from continuing operations approximated the U.S. federal statutory tax rate. 17 Net Income Our net income in fiscal 2011, which included income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $53.6 million (see Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report), was $134.0 million compared with $33.2 million in fiscal 2010, which included net income from discontinued operations of $3.9 million. Net income from continuing operations in fiscal 2011 was $80.4 million, compared with $29.3 million in fiscal 2010. The increase in fiscal 2011 net income was primarily driven by higher sales volume and a favorable product mix, somewhat reduced by charges relating to the acquisition of T 3 and a higher effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Activities In fiscal 2012, our cash inflow from operating activities was $160.4 million, compared with $101.0 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $59.4 million. This increase in fiscal 2012 was primarily caused by higher net income from continuing operations of $69.6 million, reduced by increased funding for our pension plans of $6.8 million. The increase in working capital was a reduction in operating cash flow, although lower than the prior year impact. In fiscal 2011, our cash inflow from operating activities was $101.0 million, compared with $88.5 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $12.5 million. This increase was caused by higher net income, somewhat reduced by higher working capital needs in fiscal 2011 to support our sales and profit growth, payments for restructuring costs accrued at the end of fiscal 2010, increased funding for U.S. pension plans, and payments related to accruals in the opening balance sheet of T 3. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items. We expect our available cash, fiscal 2013 operating cash flow and availability under our credit agreement to be adequate to fund fiscal year 2013 operating needs, shareholder dividends, capital expenditures, and additional share repurchases, if any. Investing Activities In fiscal 2012, the Company continued to generate substantial cash from operating activities, which resulted in a strong year end financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 were $29.5 million in fiscal 2012 and were primarily related to our cost reduction and sales growth initiatives. In fiscal 2011, our net cash outflows relating to investing activities of $29.5 million included $90.4 million of cash used for the T 3 acquisition, net of cash acquired; cash proceeds from the sale of our Romaco businesses of $89.2 million and $28.3 million of capital expenditures. In fiscal 2010, our net cash outflows from investing activities of $8.1 million consisted of capital expenditures of approximately $10.6 million and asset sale proceeds of $2.5 million related to the sale of certain of our assets at two of our business units. The Company expects fiscal 2013 capital spending to be about 30% higher than fiscal 2012. Financing Activities Our cash outflows from financing activities for fiscal 2012 were $188.6 million which included $187.2 million in share repurchases, as more fully described in Note 14 of the financial statements at Item 8 of this Report. The decrease in net proceeds from stock activities in fiscal 2012 of $12.9 million primarily resulted from fewer stock option exercises in the current year. The large amount of option exercises in fiscal 2011 was attributable to the T 3 acquisition. Dividends paid during fiscal 2012 were $8.6 million, or $1.0 million higher than fiscal 2011, primarily due to additional shares issued in January 2011 related to our T 3 merger. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased in January 2012 from $0.045 to $0.050. 18 From available cash balances, we repaid the remaining $30.0 million of Senior Notes on the May 3, 2010 maturity date. On October 6, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized to repurchase up to 3.0 million of the Companys outstanding common shares, in addition to the approximately 1.0 million remaining available for repurchase under the October 2008 authorization by the Board of Directors. In fiscal 2012, the Company repurchased all the remaining 4.0 million shares for $187.2 million. Repurchases were funded from the Companys available cash balances. There were no such share repurchases in fiscal 2011 and 2010. On June 25, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2.0 million of the Companys currently outstanding common shares (the June 2012 Program). Repurchases under the June 2012 Program will generally be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions not exceeding prevailing market prices, subject to regulatory considerations and market conditions, and will be funded from the Companys cash and credit facilities. There were no repurchases under the June 2012 Program in fiscal 2012. Under the terms of the definitive merger agreement with NOV, we have agreed not to repurchase our common shares under the June 2012 Program pending consummation of the merger. The June 2012 Program will expire when we have repurchased all the authorized shares, unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution or consummation of the merger. Credit Agreement Our Bank Credit Agreement (the Agreement) provides that we may borrow, for the five year term of the Agreement, on a revolving credit basis up to a maximum of $150.0 million at any one time. In addition, under the terms of the Agreement, we are entitled, on up to six occasions prior to the maturity of the loan, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to increase the aggregate commitments under the Agreement in the aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million. All outstanding amounts under the Agreement are due and payable on March 16, 2016. Interest is variable based upon formulas tied to a Eurocurrency rate or an alternative base rate defined in the Agreement, at our option. Borrowings, which may also be used for general corporate purposes, are unsecured, but are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. While no amounts are outstanding under the Agreement at August 31, 2012, we have $23.7 million of standby letters of credit outstanding at August 31, 2012. These standby letters of credit are used as security for advance payments received from customers and for future payments to our vendors. Accordingly, under the Agreement, we have $126.3 million of unused borrowing capacity. The Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, default provisions and affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on indebtedness, liens, asset sales, mergers and other fundamental changes involving the Company, permitted investments, sales and lease backs, cash dividends and share repurchases, and financial covenants relating to interest coverage and leverage. As of August 31, 2012, we are in compliance with these covenants. We obtained a waiver from the lenders under the Agreement in connection with our pending merger with National Oilwell Varco, because the execution of the Merger Agreement and the merger would cause us to be in default under the Agreement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This Managements Discussion and Analysis is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. The more critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements are discussed below. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue at the time of title passage to our customer which is generally upon shipment of the product. We recognize revenue for certain longer term contracts based on the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion method requires estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. We follow this method because we can make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost applicable to various stages of a contract. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that gave rise to the revision become known. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Significant estimates made by us include the allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, deferred tax asset valuation allowance, warranty, litigation, product liability, tax contingencies, stock option valuation, goodwill and intangible valuation and retirement benefit obligations. Our estimate for uncollectible accounts receivable is based upon an analysis of our prior collection experience, specific customer creditworthiness, current economic trends within the industries we serve, specific customers ability to pay us and the length of time that the receivables are past due. Inventory valuation reserves are determined based on our assessment of the demand for our products and the on hand quantities of inventory in relation to historical usage. The inventory to which this reserve relates is still on hand and will be sold or disposed of in the future. The expected selling price of this inventory approximates its net book value; therefore, there is no significant impact on gross margin when it is sold. 19 We have recorded valuation allowances to reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that may not be realized based upon our analysis of the realization of tax benefits associated with the deferred tax assets. Future taxable income, reversals of temporary differences, available carryback periods, the results of tax strategies and changes in tax laws could impact these estimates. Warranty obligations are contingent upon product failure rates, material required for the repairs and service and delivery costs. We estimate the warranty accrual based on specific product failures that are known to us plus an additional amount based on the historical relationship of warranty claims to sales. We record litigation and product liability reserves based upon a case by case analysis of the facts, circumstances and estimated costs. Estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and are based on the best available information at the time we prepare our consolidated financial statements. These estimates are subject to change as conditions within and beyond our control change, including but not limited to economic conditions, the availability of additional information and actual experience rates different from those used in our estimates. Accordingly, actual results may differ from these estimates. Acquisition and Disposition On August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco in an all cash transaction. Under the terms of the transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Robbins & Myers, Inc. and NOV, upon the closing of the merger, our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share of Robbins & Myers they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval from our shareholders. On January 10, 2011 (the acquisition date), we completed our acquisition of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3), such that T 3 became a wholly owned subsidiary of Robbins & Myers, Inc. The operating results of T 3 are included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date within our Energy Services segment. See Note 4 Acquisition in Item 8 of this Report. The merger was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations. Accordingly, we made an allocation of the purchase price at the acquisition date based upon our estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities obtained during our due diligence process and through other sources, including through tangible and intangible asset appraisals. Additionally, as required by ASC 805, all integration related costs, including professional fees and severance, were expensed as incurred. In fiscal 2011, we completed the sale of all the shares and equity interest in our Romaco businesses (Romaco segment). The results of our Romaco segment are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is assessed on an annual basis, or more frequently as impairment indicators arise. Due to the reconfiguration of our segments in fiscal 2012, impairment tests, which involve the use of estimates related to the fair market values of the business operations with which goodwill is associated at our reporting unit level, were performed at year end for fiscal 2012 (our annual impairment test date) using both a market approach, as well as a discounted cash flow methodology (income approach). The market approach determines the value of a reporting unit by deriving market multiples for reporting units based on assumptions potential market participants would use in establishing a bid price for the unit. This approach therefore assumes strategic initiatives will result in improvements in operational performance in the event of purchase, and includes the application of a discount rate based on market participant assumptions with respect to capital structure and access to capital markets. The income approach uses a reporting units projection of estimated operating results and cash flows that are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital that reflects current and future market conditions. The projection uses managements best estimates of economic and market conditions over the projected period, including growth rates in sales, costs, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins and cash expenditures. Other significant estimates and assumptions include terminal value growth rates, future estimates of capital expenditures and changes in future working capital requirements. Our final estimate of fair value of reporting units is developed by a combination of the fair values determined through both the market and income approaches. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. Although our market participant assumptions and cash flow 20 forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the market environment and plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in applying these assumptions to our valuations. The impairment testing performed by the Company at August 31, 2012 indicated that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its corresponding carrying amount, and, as such, no impairment existed. Our definite lived intangible assets are generally amortized on a straight line basis, with estimated useful lives ranging from under one year to 20 years. These assets are evaluated periodically and when events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to recover their carrying amount. When events and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of these definite lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value by preparing estimates of sales volume and the resulting gross profit and cash flows. If the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. We use a variety of methodologies to determine the fair values of these assets including discounted cash flow models, which are consistent with the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. Losses, if any, resulting from impairment tests for goodwill and definite lived intangible assets would be reflected in income before interest and income taxes in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Foreign Currency Accounting Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of a transaction in a currency different from that used to record the transaction are charged or credited to net income when incurred. Adjustments resulting from the translation of non U.S. dollar functional currency denominated financial statements into U.S. dollars are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss in the Consolidated Balance Sheet (except Venezuela, which was reported under highly inflationary accounting rules since our second quarter of fiscal 2010 see below). Our Company has a Venezuelan subsidiary with net sales, operating income and total assets representing approximately one percent of our consolidated financial statement amounts for fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012. In early January 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency. Our subsidiary operated under a rate of 4.30 bolivars to the U.S. dollar, as compared with the previous rate of 2.15, and our fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 year end financial statements reflected this new rate. In addition, the financial statements of our Venezuelan subsidiary were consolidated and reported under highly inflationary accounting rules under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, with all gains or losses from remeasurement reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Income since the second quarter of fiscal 2010. We use permanently invested intercompany loans as a source of capital to reduce the exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our foreign subsidiaries. These loans are treated as analogous to equity for accounting purposes. Therefore, we record foreign exchange gains or losses on these intercompany loans in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Pensions We maintain defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans that provide retirement benefits to substantially all U.S. employees and certain non U.S. employees. Pension expense for fiscal 2012 and beyond is dependent on a number of factors including returns on plan assets and changes in plan discount rates and therefore cannot be predicted with certainty. A significant factor in determining the amount of expense recorded for a funded pension plan is the expected long term rate of return on plan assets. We develop the long term rate of return assumption based on the current mix of equity and debt securities included in plan assets and on the historical returns on those types of investments, judgmentally adjusted to reflect current expectations of future returns. At August 31, 2012, the weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets was 7.3%. In addition to the expected rate of return on plan assets, recorded pension expense includes the effects of service cost the actuarial cost of benefits earned during a period and interest on the plans liabilities to participants. These amounts are determined actuarially based on current discount rates and assumptions regarding matters such as future salary increases and mortality. Differences in actual experience in relation to these assumptions are generally not recognized immediately but rather are deferred together with asset related gains or losses. When cumulative asset related and liability related gains or losses exceed the greater of 10% of total liabilities or the calculated value of plan assets, the excess is amortized and included in pension income or expense. At 21 August 31, 2012, the weighted average discount rate used to value plan liabilities was 3.8%. We determine our discount rate based on an actuarial yield curve applied to the payments we expect to make out of our defined benefit plans. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications based on current rates and trends when appropriate. Additional changes in the key assumptions discussed above would affect the amount of pension expense currently expected to be recorded for years subsequent to fiscal 2012. Specifically, a one half percent decrease in the rate of return on assets assumption would have the effect of increasing pension expense by approximately $0.5 million. A comparable increase in this assumption would have the opposite effect. In addition, a one half percent increase in the discount rate would decrease pension expense by $0.4 million, and a comparable decrease in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $0.6 million. New Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010 06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements, that amends existing disclosure requirements under ASC 820, by adding required disclosures about items transferring into and out of levels 1 and 2 in the fair value hierarchy; adding separate disclosures about purchase, sales, issuances, and settlements relative to level 3 measurements; and clarifying, among other things, the existing fair value disclosures about the level of disaggregation. This ASU was effective for us in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the requirement to provide level 3 activity of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis, which was effective beginning in our fiscal 2012. The remaining adoption of this standard in fiscal 2012 for level 3 activity disclosure did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations, that addresses diversity in practice about the interpretation of the pro forma revenue and earnings disclosure requirements for business combinations. The amendments in this standard specify that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior reporting period only. This standard also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures under ASC 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. This standard was effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2012 and its applicability will depend on future acquisitions. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs, that amends the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU achieve the objectives of developing common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs and improving their understandability. Some of the requirements clarify the FASBs intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements while other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with no early adoption permitted. This standard was effective for us beginning in our third quarter of fiscal 2012. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, that improves the comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income by eliminating the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. The amendments in this standard require that all non owner changes in stockholders equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under either method, adjustments must be displayed for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income (OCI) to net income, in both net income and OCI. The standard does not change the current option for presenting components of OCI gross or net of the effect of income taxes, provided that such tax effects are presented in the statement in which OCI is 22 presented or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Additionally, the standard does not affect the calculation or reporting of earnings per share. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 05, which defers only those changes in ASU No. 2011 05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments. All other requirements in ASU No. 2011 05 are not affected by this standard, including the requirement to report comprehensive income either in a single continuous financial statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. For public entities, the amendments in ASU No. 2011 05, as superseded by ASU No. 2011 12, are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and are to be applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. These standards will be effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2013. We do not expect the adoption of these standards to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, that gives both public and nonpublic entities the option to qualitatively determine whether they can bypass the existing two step goodwill impairment test under ASC 350 20. Under the new standard, if an entity chooses to perform a qualitative assessment and determines that it is more likely than not (a more than 50 percent likelihood) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it would then perform Step 1 of the annual goodwill impairment test in ASC 350 20 and, if necessary, proceed to Step 2. Otherwise, no further evaluation would be necessary. The decision to perform a qualitative assessment is made at the reporting unit level, and an entity with multiple units may utilize a mix of qualitative assessments and quantitative tests among its reporting units. This standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU No. 2012 02, Testing Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment, that gives both public and nonpublic entities the option to use a qualitative approach to test indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. ASU 2012 02 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset with its carrying value. Otherwise, the quantitative impairment test is not required. This standard is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012, with early adoption permitted. This standard will be effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2014. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 23 Contractual Obligations Following is information regarding our long term contractual obligations and other commitments outstanding as of August 31, 2012: Payments Due by Period Long term contractual obligations Total Oneyearor less Twotothreeyears Fourto fiveyears Afterfiveyears (In thousands) Debt obligations $ 153 $ 153 $ $ $ Operating leases (1) 17,224 5,785 7,584 2,413 1,442 Total contractual cash obligations $ 17,377 $ 5,938 $ 7,584 $ 2,413 $ 1,442 (1) Operating leases consist primarily of building and equipment leases. Unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $2,674,000, including interest and penalties, have been excluded from the table because we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments. The only other commercial commitments outstanding were standby letters of credit of $23,704,000. Of this outstanding amount, $16,306,000 is due within a year, $7,153,000 is due within two to three years and $245,000 is due within four to five years. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In fiscal 2011, the Company divested its Romaco businesses. In connection with this divestiture, the Company has provided certain representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the likelihood or the amount of potential liabilities from such matters. The Company does not believe that any such liability will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 24 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We maintain operations in the U.S. and foreign countries. We have market risk exposure to foreign exchange rates in the normal course of our business operations. Our significant non U.S. operations have their local currencies as their functional currency and primarily buy and sell using that same currency. The Company also operates in Venezuela, whose currency in 2010 became highly inflationary, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, causing us to utilize the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Sales, operating income and total assets in Venezuela represent approximately one percent of our consolidated financial statement amounts. We manage our exposure to net assets and cash flows in currencies other than U.S. dollars by minimizing our non U.S. dollar net asset positions. Under certain conditions, we may enter into hedging transactions, primarily currency swaps, under established policies and guidelines that enable us to mitigate the potential adverse impact of foreign exchange rate risk. We do not engage in trading or other speculative activities with these transactions as established policies require that these hedging transactions relate to specific currency exposures. We currently do not have any such hedging transactions in place. Our main foreign exchange rate exposures relate to assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in British pounds, euros, Indian rupees, Chinese renminbi and Canadian dollars and the general economic exposure that fluctuations in these currencies could have on the U.S. dollar value of future non U.S. cash flows. To illustrate the potential impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on us for fiscal 2012, the net unhedged exposures in each currency were remeasured assuming a ten percent decrease in foreign exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar. Using this method, our EBIT for fiscal 2012 would have decreased by $4.2 million and our cash flow from operations for fiscal 2012 would have decreased by $2.4 million. This calculation assumed that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates, these changes may also affect the volume of sales or the foreign currency sales prices as competitors products become more or less attractive. Our sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not include any effects of potential changes in sales levels or local currency prices. At August 31, 2012, we had a nominal total debt of $0.2 million with a minimal interest rate. The estimated fair value of our debt at August 31, 2012 approximates its carrying value due to the short period until maturity. 25 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Operating Results Orders (2) $ 1,100,984 $ 876,250 $ 521,948 $ 451,310 $ 667,621 Ending backlog (2) 307,790 251,064 136,798 94,838 186,697 Sales (2) 1,034,783 820,640 478,193 527,345 636,472 EBIT (2,3,4) 218,616 131,343 46,918 72,076 110,061 Net income from continuing operations Robbins & Myers, Inc. (3) 150,000 80,375 29,338 53,476 69,516 Net income per share from continuing operations (3): Basic $ 3.41 $ 1.96 $ 0.89 $ 1.61 $ 2.01 Diluted 3.39 1.94 0.89 1.61 2.00 Financial Condition Total assets $ 1,523,263 $ 1,582,966 $ 817,021 $ 796,854 $ 864,717 Total cash 166,925 230,606 149,213 108,169 123,405 Total long term debt (excluding portion due within one year) 24 93 265 30,435 Total equity 1,091,279 1,166,419 491,024 483,111 515,456 Other Data Cash flow from operating activities $ 160,432 $ 101,048 $ 88,483 $ 51,860 $ 89,560 Capital expenditures, net 29,464 28,307 10,611 17,694 22,114 Amortization 11,023 15,684 601 1,107 1,279 Depreciation 20,896 18,277 15,029 15,119 14,970 Dividends declared per share $ 0.1950 $ 0.1775 $ 0.1675 $ 0.1575 $ 0.1450 Number of employees 3,473 3,387 2,965 3,027 3,357 11 Notes to Selected Financial Data (1) We acquired all of the outstanding common stock and voting interests of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3) on January 10, 2011. We purchased the remaining 24 percent noncontrolling interest in our Process & Flow Control Group Chinese subsidiary on June 9, 2009. Our 51 percent owned subsidiary, GMM, acquired Mavag on January 10, 2008. These transactions impact the comparability of the Selected Financial Data. (2) On April 29, 2011, we disposed of our Romaco segment which was accounted for as a discontinued operation. Orders, ending backlog, sales and EBIT reflect only continuing operations. Other information includes our Romaco segment for periods owned. (3) A summary of the Companys special items, including inventory write up values charged to cost of sales, and their impact on diluted earnings per share is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands, except per share data) Pre tax impact of special items expense (income): NOV merger related costs $ 2,959 $ $ $ $ Cost of sales T 3 merger related inventory write up values 9,499 Other T 3 merger related costs: Employee termination costs 3,022 Backlog amortization 7,234 Professional fees and accelerated equity compensation 5,884 Restructuring costs including severance 1,012 2,764 Net facility sale gains (835 ) Total special items $ 2,959 $ 26,651 $ 2,764 $ $ (835 ) (Decrease) increase in net income due to special items $ (1,923 ) $ (18,058 ) $ (2,764 ) $ $ 543 (Decrease) increase in diluted earnings per share due to special items $ (0.04 ) $ (0.44 ) $ (0.08 ) $ $ 0.02 (4) The Companys operating performance is evaluated using several measures. One of those measures, EBIT, is income before interest and income taxes and is reconciled to net income on our Consolidated Statement of Income. We evaluate performance of our business segments and allocate resources based on EBIT. EBIT is not, however, a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as a measure of our operating results. EBIT is not a measure of cash available for use by management. 12 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of highly engineered, application critical equipment and systems for the energy, industrial, chemical and pharmaceutical markets worldwide. With our acquisition of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3) on January 10, 2011 (the acquisition date), we are expanding and complementing our energy business in our Energy Services segment, and creating a stronger strategic platform with better scale to support future growth. We attribute our success to our close and continuing interaction with customers, our manufacturing, sourcing and application engineering expertise and our ability to serve customers globally. We have initiated programs to reduce our manufacturing footprint for specific product lines to improve asset utilization, and we have standardized more of the reactor system product offerings to leverage our supply chain, global manufacturing assets and functional resources. We are continuing to find ways to leverage strengths across the Company and identify new synergy opportunities. In fiscal 2013, we expect to continue our streamlining and profit margin expansion efforts in certain businesses and pursue our organic and strategic growth initiatives to improve our competitiveness, financial results, long term profitability and shareholder value. As more fully described in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (NOV, National Oilwell Varco), in an all cash transaction. Under the terms of the transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Robbins & Myers and NOV, upon the closing of the merger, our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share of Robbins & Myers they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval of our shareholders. On October 9, 2012, we received a request for additional information and documents from the U.S. Justice Department (often referred to as a second request) in connection with the proposed merger. Unless expressly noted to the contrary, all forward looking statements in the discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that follows relate to the Company on a stand alone basis and are not reflective of the impact of the proposed merger with NOV. We continued to experience positive results during fiscal 2012 in major geographic areas and end markets, with most products achieving revenue growth and improved margins driven by strong backlog at the beginning of fiscal 2012 and higher orders in fiscal 2012, along with benefits from our past restructuring and continuing cost containment initiatives. We are seeing our energy markets moderating, but remain at relatively high levels and continued growth in certain chemical and industrial markets. We are cautiously optimistic that with our order trends and record backlog in both our segments at the end of fiscal 2012, we will continue to see improved operating results in fiscal 2013. With approximately 43% of our sales outside the United States, we can be affected by changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currencies in non U.S. countries in which we operate. The impact on net income, sales and orders due to foreign exchange changes was not material for fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with related gains or losses reported as a separate component of our shareholders equity, except for Venezuela, which is reported following highly inflationary accounting rules under U.S. GAAP. The marginal weakening of most foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2012 did not materially impact our financial condition at the end of fiscal 2012 as compared with the end of fiscal 2011. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we changed the composition of our reportable segments to reflect organizational, management and operational changes implemented in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company now reports results in two business segments consisting of Energy Services and Process & Flow Control. The Company previously reported its operations under the Fluid Management segment and the Process Solutions segment. The businesses in our Energy Services segment provide mission critical products to customers in the upstream oil and gas markets for use in drilling and exploration, production and completion, and pipeline transmission infrastructure. Major products include power sections for drilling motors, blowout preventers, down hole progressing cavity pumps, drive systems and automation, wellhead equipment, frac manifolds and trees, high pressure engineered gate valves and a broad line of ancillary equipment for the energy sector, such as rod guides, rod and tubing rotators, pipeline closure products and valves. Our Energy Services segment includes products and services sold under the Robbins & Myers Energy Systems&reg; and T 3&reg; brands. Our Process & Flow Control segment targets industrial customers in the industrial chemical, pharmaceutical, wastewater treatment, food and beverage, and other end markets. Products include glass lined reactors and thermal heat exchangers, progressing cavity pumps for industrial applications and surface transfer of viscous fluids, mixing equipment and engineered systems used to filter and process various liquids and materials. Primary brands in our Process & 13 Flow Control segment include Pfaudler&reg;, Moyno&reg;, Chemineer&reg; and Edlon&reg;. We believe that this strategic realignment, which is reflected in our financial reporting for all periods presented, will enable us to have greater focus on our primary end markets while creating additional opportunities to more efficiently serve common customers and to leverage strengths across product groups. As mentioned above, on January 10, 2011, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock and voting interest of T 3. The operating results of T 3 are included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date in our Energy Services segment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we divested our Romaco businesses (Romaco segment). This divestiture was part of the Companys portfolio management process and operating strategy to simplify the business and improve its profit profile, and to focus on growing the Company around core competencies. The results of operations for our Romaco segment are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. With the sale of the Romaco segment and our realignment as discussed above, our business consists of two market focused segments: Energy Services and Process & Flow Control. Energy Services. Order levels from customers served by our Energy Services segment moderated in the second half of fiscal 2012, but continued to show year over year improvements in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Our primary objectives for this segment are to grow sales by increasing our capacity to meet current demand, expanding our geographic reach, improving our selling and product management capabilities, commercializing new products in our niche market sectors, developing new customer relationships, and expanding our aftermarket business. Our Energy Services business segment designs, manufactures, markets, repairs and services equipment and systems including power sections for drilling motors, blow out preventers, down hole progressing cavity pumps, drive systems and controllers, wellhead equipment, frac manifolds and trees, high pressure engineered gate valves, and a broad line of ancillary equipment for the energy sector, such as rod guides, rod and tubing rotators, pipeline closure products and valves. These products are primarily used in upstream oil and gas exploration and recovery applications. Process & Flow Control. Our Process & Flow Control segment orders improved in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011, achieving the highest levels since fiscal 2008. Pricing began to show improvement in fiscal 2012, but has not fully recovered, especially in the European chemical markets. Our primary objectives for this segment are to reduce operating costs in developed regions, increase manufacturing capabilities in low cost areas, standardize our products to increase operating flexibility, integrate our global operations and increase our focus on aftermarket opportunities. Our Process & Flow Control business segment designs, manufactures and services glass lined reactors and storage vessels, customized equipment and systems and customized fluoropolymer lined fittings, industrial progressing cavity pumps and complementary products such as grinders and customized fluid agitation equipment and systems primarily for the pharmaceutical, industrial and specialty chemical markets. 14 Results of Operations The following tables present components of our Consolidated Statement of Income and segment information for our continuing operations. Consolidated 2012 2011 2010 Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 61.1 62.8 66.8 Gross profit 38.9 37.2 33.2 SG&A expenses 17.5 19.1 22.8 Other expense 0.3 2.1 0.6 EBIT 21.1 % 16.0 % 9.8 % By Segment 2012 2011 2010 Energy Services: (In millions, except percents) Sales $ 665.5 $ 477.2 $ 201.6 EBIT 198.0 131.0 61.7 EBIT % 29.8 % 27.4 % 30.6 % Process & Flow Control: Sales $ 369.3 $ 343.4 $ 276.6 EBIT 41.4 26.8 4.9 EBIT % 11.2 % 7.8 % 1.8 % Consolidated: Sales $ 1,034.8 $ 820.6 $ 478.2 EBIT 218.6 131.3 46.9 EBIT % 21.1 % 16.0 % 9.8 % The comparability of the operating results has been impacted by NOV merger related costs in fiscal 2012 and T 3 merger related costs in fiscal 2011, as well as restructuring costs in fiscal 2011 and 2010. See Note 7 Statement of Income Information in Item 8 of this Report for further discussion. In addition, the comparability of the segment data is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to the translation of non U.S. dollar denominated subsidiary results into U.S. dollars, acquisition of T 3 (included in our Energy Services segment) on January 10, 2011, as well as general economic conditions in the end markets we serve. The Companys operating performance is evaluated using several measures. One of those measures, EBIT, is income before interest and income taxes and is reconciled to net income on our Consolidated Statement of Income. We evaluate performance of our business segments and allocate resources based on EBIT. EBIT is not, however, a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as a measure of our operating results. EBIT is not a measure of cash available for use by management. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2012 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2011 Net Sales Consolidated net sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 were $1,034.8 million, or $214.1 million higher than fiscal 2011 net sales, an increase of 26%. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the T 3 acquisition, net sales increased by $100.8 million, or 16%, due to higher sales in both of our segments in fiscal 2012. The Energy Services segment, which includes T 3 results since January 10, 2011, had sales of $665.5 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $477.2 million in fiscal 2011. The T 3 acquisition contributed $127.0 million in additional sales over the prior year, with $78.4 million due to T 3 being owned for only a partial period of the prior year and the remaining due to strong demand in fiscal 2012, as discussed below. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and T 3 acquisition, sales in fiscal 2012 increased $64.1 million, or 21%. This volume increase was primarily due to higher customer demand resulting from higher oil prices worldwide in fiscal 2012 and increased expenditure for drilling activity as exploration and production companies invested to capture oil and 15 gas from shale formations in North America. Orders for this segment were impacted by the same factors and were $714.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $517.8 million in fiscal 2011. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, orders in fiscal 2012 grew $61.9 million, or 21%, due to strong market conditions. Ending backlog at August 31, 2012 was $169.7 million compared with $121.3 million at August 31, 2011. The Process & Flow Control segment had sales of $369.3 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $343.4 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $25.9 million, or 8%. Excluding currency impact, sales in fiscal 2012 increased $36.7 million, or 11%, from the prior year, reflecting improved market conditions in certain served end markets. Segment orders in fiscal 2012 continued to improve from fiscal 2011 and were $386.6 million, compared with $358.5 million in fiscal 2011. Excluding currency impact, orders increased $38.4 million, or 11%, in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011, reflecting improved demand in certain end markets outside Europe. Ending backlog at August 31, 2012 was $138.1 million compared with $129.8 million at August 31, 2011. Income Before Interest and Income Taxes (EBIT) Consolidated EBIT from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 was $218.6 million compared with $131.3 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $87.3 million. The T 3 business acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 contributed $42.3 million of the consolidated EBIT increase, including $5.9 million of T 3 merger related costs incurred at Corporate and $19.7 million of higher amortization related to customer backlog, severance costs and inventory write up values expense in the Energy Services segment which did not recur in fiscal 2012. The current year EBIT includes $3.0 million of expense related to the NOV merger. The remaining $48.0 million increase in consolidated EBIT was mainly attributable to the higher sales volume described above in all our business platforms and a favorable sales mix in our Energy Services segment. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. The Energy Services segment had EBIT of $198.0 million in fiscal 2012, compared with $131.0 million in the prior year, an increase of $67.0 million. The T 3 business acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 contributed $36.4 million of the increase. The prior year EBIT included merger related expenses of $19.7 million for higher amortization related to customer backlog, severance and expense due to inventory write up values. The remaining increase in EBIT of $30.6 million was mainly due to the higher sales volume described above and an improved product sales mix. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. The Process & Flow Control segment had EBIT of $41.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $26.8 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $14.6 million. The increase in EBIT was due principally to the higher sales volume in fiscal 2012 described above. Fiscal 2011 had $1.2 million of pension curtailment costs related to one of our U.S. operations and restructuring costs of $1.0 million related to our German operations, that did not recur in fiscal 2012. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. Corporate costs were $5.6 million lower in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Merger related costs, NOV in fiscal 2012 and T 3 in fiscal 2011, were $2.9 million lower. The remaining decrease is from lower compensation costs related to the departure of an executive officer in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, lower pension costs and foreign currency gains. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 30.9% for fiscal 2012 compared with 38.2% in fiscal 2011. The current year effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate in fiscal 2011, primarily due to audit settlements in fiscal 2012 and the related release of unrecognized tax benefit balances, as well as increased income in our foreign locations which have lower effective tax rates. Additionally, fiscal 2011 included the recording of an additional valuation allowance of $7.0 million for certain deferred tax assets in our Process & Flow Control segment. Net Income Our net income in fiscal 2012 was $150.0 million compared with $134.0 million in fiscal 2011, which includes income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $53.6 million (see Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report). Net income from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 was $150.0 million, compared with $80.4 million in fiscal 2011. The increase in fiscal 2012 net income from continuing operations was primarily driven by the contribution of the prior year T 3 acquisition for the full year, higher sales volume, favorable product mix, lower merger related charges and a lower effective tax rate. 16 Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2011 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Net Sales Consolidated net sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 were $820.6 million, or $342.4 million higher than fiscal 2010 net sales, an increase of 72%. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the T 3 acquisition, net sales increased by $152.4 million, or 32%, due to higher sales in both of our segments in fiscal 2011. The Energy Services segment, which included T 3 results since January 10, 2011, had sales of $477.2 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $201.6 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and T 3 acquisition, sales in fiscal 2011 increased $91.7 million, or 45%. The increase was primarily due to strong growth in horizontal rigs, as exploration and production companies invested to capture oil and gas from shale formations in North America. Orders for this segment were $517.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $218.4 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, orders in fiscal 2011 grew $78.4 million, or 36%, due to strong market conditions. Ending backlog at August 31, 2011, including T 3 backlog of $91.3 million, was $121.3 million compared with $27.1 million at August 31, 2010. The Process & Flow Control segment had sales of $343.4 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $276.6 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $66.8 million, or 24%. Excluding currency impact, sales in fiscal 2011 increased $60.7 million, or 22%, from the prior year, due to improving demand for capital goods in global chemical markets. Segment orders in fiscal 2011 continued to improve from fiscal 2010 and were $358.5 million, compared with $303.5 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency impact, orders increased $49.9 million, or 16%, in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, reflecting improved demand in certain end markets outside Europe. Ending backlog at August 31, 2011 was $129.8 million compared with $109.7 million at August 31, 2010. Income Before Interest and Income Taxes (EBIT) Consolidated EBIT from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 was $131.3 million compared with $46.9 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $84.4 million. Excluding the impacts of currency translation and operating results of T 3, consolidated EBIT in fiscal 2011 increased by $67.2 million. This increase in consolidated EBIT was mainly attributable to the higher sales volume described above in all our business platforms and a favorable sales mix in our Energy Services segment. We also experienced $1.8 million of lower restructuring charges in our Process & Flow Control segment in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. The Energy Services segment had EBIT of $131.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $61.7 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, EBIT for fiscal 2011 increased by $51.8 million, or 84%, due principally to the sales increase and a favorable product mix. The Process & Flow Control segment had EBIT of $26.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $4.9 million in fiscal 2010. This increase in EBIT resulted from higher sales volume in fiscal 2011, as well as lower restructuring charges of $1.8 million. Corporate costs were $6.8 million higher in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, primarily due to $5.9 million of costs associated with professional fees and accelerated stock compensation expense related to the T 3 merger transaction. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 38.2% for fiscal 2011 compared with 35.2% in fiscal 2010. The fiscal 2011 effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate in fiscal 2010, primarily due to the recording of an additional valuation allowance of $7.0 million for certain deferred tax assets in our Process & Flow Control segment. Excluding this impact, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate primarily due to certain U.S. permanent deductions and tax credits. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 from continuing operations approximated the U.S. federal statutory tax rate. 17 Net Income Our net income in fiscal 2011, which included income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $53.6 million (see Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report), was $134.0 million compared with $33.2 million in fiscal 2010, which included net income from discontinued operations of $3.9 million. Net income from continuing operations in fiscal 2011 was $80.4 million, compared with $29.3 million in fiscal 2010. The increase in fiscal 2011 net income was primarily driven by higher sales volume and a favorable product mix, somewhat reduced by charges relating to the acquisition of T 3 and a higher effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Activities In fiscal 2012, our cash inflow from operating activities was $160.4 million, compared with $101.0 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $59.4 million. This increase in fiscal 2012 was primarily caused by higher net income from continuing operations of $69.6 million, reduced by increased funding for our pension plans of $6.8 million. The increase in working capital was a reduction in operating cash flow, although lower than the prior year impact. In fiscal 2011, our cash inflow from operating activities was $101.0 million, compared with $88.5 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $12.5 million. This increase was caused by higher net income, somewhat reduced by higher working capital needs in fiscal 2011 to support our sales and profit growth, payments for restructuring costs accrued at the end of fiscal 2010, increased funding for U.S. pension plans, and payments related to accruals in the opening balance sheet of T 3. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items. We expect our available cash, fiscal 2013 operating cash flow and availability under our credit agreement to be adequate to fund fiscal year 2013 operating needs, shareholder dividends, capital expenditures, and additional share repurchases, if any. Investing Activities In fiscal 2012, the Company continued to generate substantial cash from operating activities, which resulted in a strong year end financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 were $29.5 million in fiscal 2012 and were primarily related to our cost reduction and sales growth initiatives. In fiscal 2011, our net cash outflows relating to investing activities of $29.5 million included $90.4 million of cash used for the T 3 acquisition, net of cash acquired; cash proceeds from the sale of our Romaco businesses of $89.2 million and $28.3 million of capital expenditures. In fiscal 2010, our net cash outflows from investing activities of $8.1 million consisted of capital expenditures of approximately $10.6 million and asset sale proceeds of $2.5 million related to the sale of certain of our assets at two of our business units. The Company expects fiscal 2013 capital spending to be about 30% higher than fiscal 2012. Financing Activities Our cash outflows from financing activities for fiscal 2012 were $188.6 million which included $187.2 million in share repurchases, as more fully described in Note 14 of the financial statements at Item 8 of this Report. The decrease in net proceeds from stock activities in fiscal 2012 of $12.9 million primarily resulted from fewer stock option exercises in the current year. The large amount of option exercises in fiscal 2011 was attributable to the T 3 acquisition. Dividends paid during fiscal 2012 were $8.6 million, or $1.0 million higher than fiscal 2011, primarily due to additional shares issued in January 2011 related to our T 3 merger. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased in January 2012 from $0.045 to $0.050. 18 From available cash balances, we repaid the remaining $30.0 million of Senior Notes on the May 3, 2010 maturity date. On October 6, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized to repurchase up to 3.0 million of the Companys outstanding common shares, in addition to the approximately 1.0 million remaining available for repurchase under the October 2008 authorization by the Board of Directors. In fiscal 2012, the Company repurchased all the remaining 4.0 million shares for $187.2 million. Repurchases were funded from the Companys available cash balances. There were no such share repurchases in fiscal 2011 and 2010. On June 25, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2.0 million of the Companys currently outstanding common shares (the June 2012 Program). Repurchases under the June 2012 Program will generally be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions not exceeding prevailing market prices, subject to regulatory considerations and market conditions, and will be funded from the Companys cash and credit facilities. There were no repurchases under the June 2012 Program in fiscal 2012. Under the terms of the definitive merger agreement with NOV, we have agreed not to repurchase our common shares under the June 2012 Program pending consummation of the merger. The June 2012 Program will expire when we have repurchased all the authorized shares, unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution or consummation of the merger. Credit Agreement Our Bank Credit Agreement (the Agreement) provides that we may borrow, for the five year term of the Agreement, on a revolving credit basis up to a maximum of $150.0 million at any one time. In addition, under the terms of the Agreement, we are entitled, on up to six occasions prior to the maturity of the loan, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to increase the aggregate commitments under the Agreement in the aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million. All outstanding amounts under the Agreement are due and payable on March 16, 2016. Interest is variable based upon formulas tied to a Eurocurrency rate or an alternative base rate defined in the Agreement, at our option. Borrowings, which may also be used for general corporate purposes, are unsecured, but are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. While no amounts are outstanding under the Agreement at August 31, 2012, we have $23.7 million of standby letters of credit outstanding at August 31, 2012. These standby letters of credit are used as security for advance payments received from customers and for future payments to our vendors. Accordingly, under the Agreement, we have $126.3 million of unused borrowing capacity. The Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, default provisions and affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on indebtedness, liens, asset sales, mergers and other fundamental changes involving the Company, permitted investments, sales and lease backs, cash dividends and share repurchases, and financial covenants relating to interest coverage and leverage. As of August 31, 2012, we are in compliance with these covenants. We obtained a waiver from the lenders under the Agreement in connection with our pending merger with National Oilwell Varco, because the execution of the Merger Agreement and the merger would cause us to be in default under the Agreement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This Managements Discussion and Analysis is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. The more critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements are discussed below. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue at the time of title passage to our customer which is generally upon shipment of the product. We recognize revenue for certain longer term contracts based on the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion method requires estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. We follow this method because we can make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost applicable to various stages of a contract. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that gave rise to the revision become known. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Significant estimates made by us include the allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, deferred tax asset valuation allowance, warranty, litigation, product liability, tax contingencies, stock option valuation, goodwill and intangible valuation and retirement benefit obligations. Our estimate for uncollectible accounts receivable is based upon an analysis of our prior collection experience, specific customer creditworthiness, current economic trends within the industries we serve, specific customers ability to pay us and the length of time that the receivables are past due. Inventory valuation reserves are determined based on our assessment of the demand for our products and the on hand quantities of inventory in relation to historical usage. The inventory to which this reserve relates is still on hand and will be sold or disposed of in the future. The expected selling price of this inventory approximates its net book value; therefore, there is no significant impact on gross margin when it is sold. 19 We have recorded valuation allowances to reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that may not be realized based upon our analysis of the realization of tax benefits associated with the deferred tax assets. Future taxable income, reversals of temporary differences, available carryback periods, the results of tax strategies and changes in tax laws could impact these estimates. Warranty obligations are contingent upon product failure rates, material required for the repairs and service and delivery costs. We estimate the warranty accrual based on specific product failures that are known to us plus an additional amount based on the historical relationship of warranty claims to sales. We record litigation and product liability reserves based upon a case by case analysis of the facts, circumstances and estimated costs. Estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and are based on the best available information at the time we prepare our consolidated financial statements. These estimates are subject to change as conditions within and beyond our control change, including but not limited to economic conditions, the availability of additional information and actual experience rates different from those used in our estimates. Accordingly, actual results may differ from these estimates. Acquisition and Disposition On August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco in an all cash transaction. Under the terms of the transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Robbins & Myers, Inc. and NOV, upon the closing of the merger, our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share of Robbins & Myers they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval from our shareholders. On January 10, 2011 (the acquisition date), we completed our acquisition of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3), such that T 3 became a wholly owned subsidiary of Robbins & Myers, Inc. The operating results of T 3 are included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date within our Energy Services segment. See Note 4 Acquisition in Item 8 of this Report. The merger was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations. Accordingly, we made an allocation of the purchase price at the acquisition date based upon our estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities obtained during our due diligence process and through other sources, including through tangible and intangible asset appraisals. Additionally, as required by ASC 805, all integration related costs, including professional fees and severance, were expensed as incurred. In fiscal 2011, we completed the sale of all the shares and equity interest in our Romaco businesses (Romaco segment). The results of our Romaco segment are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is assessed on an annual basis, or more frequently as impairment indicators arise. Due to the reconfiguration of our segments in fiscal 2012, impairment tests, which involve the use of estimates related to the fair market values of the business operations with which goodwill is associated at our reporting unit level, were performed at year end for fiscal 2012 (our annual impairment test date) using both a market approach, as well as a discounted cash flow methodology (income approach). The market approach determines the value of a reporting unit by deriving market multiples for reporting units based on assumptions potential market participants would use in establishing a bid price for the unit. This approach therefore assumes strategic initiatives will result in improvements in operational performance in the event of purchase, and includes the application of a discount rate based on market participant assumptions with respect to capital structure and access to capital markets. The income approach uses a reporting units projection of estimated operating results and cash flows that are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital that reflects current and future market conditions. The projection uses managements best estimates of economic and market conditions over the projected period, including growth rates in sales, costs, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins and cash expenditures. Other significant estimates and assumptions include terminal value growth rates, future estimates of capital expenditures and changes in future working capital requirements. Our final estimate of fair value of reporting units is developed by a combination of the fair values determined through both the market and income approaches. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. Although our market participant assumptions and cash flow 20 forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the market environment and plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in applying these assumptions to our valuations. The impairment testing performed by the Company at August 31, 2012 indicated that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its corresponding carrying amount, and, as such, no impairment existed. Our definite lived intangible assets are generally amortized on a straight line basis, with estimated useful lives ranging from under one year to 20 years. These assets are evaluated periodically and when events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to recover their carrying amount. When events and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of these definite lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value by preparing estimates of sales volume and the resulting gross profit and cash flows. If the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. We use a variety of methodologies to determine the fair values of these assets including discounted cash flow models, which are consistent with the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. Losses, if any, resulting from impairment tests for goodwill and definite lived intangible assets would be reflected in income before interest and income taxes in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Foreign Currency Accounting Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of a transaction in a currency different from that used to record the transaction are charged or credited to net income when incurred. Adjustments resulting from the translation of non U.S. dollar functional currency denominated financial statements into U.S. dollars are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss in the Consolidated Balance Sheet (except Venezuela, which was reported under highly inflationary accounting rules since our second quarter of fiscal 2010 see below). Our Company has a Venezuelan subsidiary with net sales, operating income and total assets representing approximately one percent of our consolidated financial statement amounts for fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012. In early January 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency. Our subsidiary operated under a rate of 4.30 bolivars to the U.S. dollar, as compared with the previous rate of 2.15, and our fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 year end financial statements reflected this new rate. In addition, the financial statements of our Venezuelan subsidiary were consolidated and reported under highly inflationary accounting rules under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, with all gains or losses from remeasurement reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Income since the second quarter of fiscal 2010. We use permanently invested intercompany loans as a source of capital to reduce the exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our foreign subsidiaries. These loans are treated as analogous to equity for accounting purposes. Therefore, we record foreign exchange gains or losses on these intercompany loans in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Pensions We maintain defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans that provide retirement benefits to substantially all U.S. employees and certain non U.S. employees. Pension expense for fiscal 2012 and beyond is dependent on a number of factors including returns on plan assets and changes in plan discount rates and therefore cannot be predicted with certainty. A significant factor in determining the amount of expense recorded for a funded pension plan is the expected long term rate of return on plan assets. We develop the long term rate of return assumption based on the current mix of equity and debt securities included in plan assets and on the historical returns on those types of investments, judgmentally adjusted to reflect current expectations of future returns. At August 31, 2012, the weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets was 7.3%. In addition to the expected rate of return on plan assets, recorded pension expense includes the effects of service cost the actuarial cost of benefits earned during a period and interest on the plans liabilities to participants. These amounts are determined actuarially based on current discount rates and assumptions regarding matters such as future salary increases and mortality. Differences in actual experience in relation to these assumptions are generally not recognized immediately but rather are deferred together with asset related gains or losses. When cumulative asset related and liability related gains or losses exceed the greater of 10% of total liabilities or the calculated value of plan assets, the excess is amortized and included in pension income or expense. At 21 August 31, 2012, the weighted average discount rate used to value plan liabilities was 3.8%. We determine our discount rate based on an actuarial yield curve applied to the payments we expect to make out of our defined benefit plans. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications based on current rates and trends when appropriate. Additional changes in the key assumptions discussed above would affect the amount of pension expense currently expected to be recorded for years subsequent to fiscal 2012. Specifically, a one half percent decrease in the rate of return on assets assumption would have the effect of increasing pension expense by approximately $0.5 million. A comparable increase in this assumption would have the opposite effect. In addition, a one half percent increase in the discount rate would decrease pension expense by $0.4 million, and a comparable decrease in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $0.6 million. New Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010 06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements, that amends existing disclosure requirements under ASC 820, by adding required disclosures about items transferring into and out of levels 1 and 2 in the fair value hierarchy; adding separate disclosures about purchase, sales, issuances, and settlements relative to level 3 measurements; and clarifying, among other things, the existing fair value disclosures about the level of disaggregation. This ASU was effective for us in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the requirement to provide level 3 activity of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis, which was effective beginning in our fiscal 2012. The remaining adoption of this standard in fiscal 2012 for level 3 activity disclosure did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations, that addresses diversity in practice about the interpretation of the pro forma revenue and earnings disclosure requirements for business combinations. The amendments in this standard specify that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior reporting period only. This standard also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures under ASC 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. This standard was effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2012 and its applicability will depend on future acquisitions. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs, that amends the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU achieve the objectives of developing common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs and improving their understandability. Some of the requirements clarify the FASBs intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements while other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with no early adoption permitted. This standard was effective for us beginning in our third quarter of fiscal 2012. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, that improves the comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income by eliminating the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. The amendments in this standard require that all non owner changes in stockholders equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under either method, adjustments must be displayed for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income (OCI) to net income, in both net income and OCI. The standard does not change the current option for presenting components of OCI gross or net of the effect of income taxes, provided that such tax effects are presented in the statement in which OCI is 22 presented or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Additionally, the standard does not affect the calculation or reporting of earnings per share. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 05, which defers only those changes in ASU No. 2011 05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments. All other requirements in ASU No. 2011 05 are not affected by this standard, including the requirement to report comprehensive income either in a single continuous financial statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. For public entities, the amendments in ASU No. 2011 05, as superseded by ASU No. 2011 12, are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and are to be applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. These standards will be effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2013. We do not expect the adoption of these standards to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, that gives both public and nonpublic entities the option to qualitatively determine whether they can bypass the existing two step goodwill impairment test under ASC 350 20. Under the new standard, if an entity chooses to perform a qualitative assessment and determines that it is more likely than not (a more than 50 percent likelihood) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it would then perform Step 1 of the annual goodwill impairment test in ASC 350 20 and, if necessary, proceed to Step 2. Otherwise, no further evaluation would be necessary. The decision to perform a qualitative assessment is made at the reporting unit level, and an entity with multiple units may utilize a mix of qualitative assessments and quantitative tests among its reporting units. This standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU No. 2012 02, Testing Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment, that gives both public and nonpublic entities the option to use a qualitative approach to test indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. ASU 2012 02 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset with its carrying value. Otherwise, the quantitative impairment test is not required. This standard is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012, with early adoption permitted. This standard will be effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2014. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 23 Contractual Obligations Following is information regarding our long term contractual obligations and other commitments outstanding as of August 31, 2012: Payments Due by Period Long term contractual obligations Total Oneyearor less Twotothreeyears Fourto fiveyears Afterfiveyears (In thousands) Debt obligations $ 153 $ 153 $ $ $ Operating leases (1) 17,224 5,785 7,584 2,413 1,442 Total contractual cash obligations $ 17,377 $ 5,938 $ 7,584 $ 2,413 $ 1,442 (1) Operating leases consist primarily of building and equipment leases. Unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $2,674,000, including interest and penalties, have been excluded from the table because we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments. The only other commercial commitments outstanding were standby letters of credit of $23,704,000. Of this outstanding amount, $16,306,000 is due within a year, $7,153,000 is due within two to three years and $245,000 is due within four to five years. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In fiscal 2011, the Company divested its Romaco businesses. In connection with this divestiture, the Company has provided certain representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the likelihood or the amount of potential liabilities from such matters. The Company does not believe that any such liability will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 24 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We maintain operations in the U.S. and foreign countries. We have market risk exposure to foreign exchange rates in the normal course of our business operations. Our significant non U.S. operations have their local currencies as their functional currency and primarily buy and sell using that same currency. The Company also operates in Venezuela, whose currency in 2010 became highly inflationary, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, causing us to utilize the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Sales, operating income and total assets in Venezuela represent approximately one percent of our consolidated financial statement amounts. We manage our exposure to net assets and cash flows in currencies other than U.S. dollars by minimizing our non U.S. dollar net asset positions. Under certain conditions, we may enter into hedging transactions, primarily currency swaps, under established policies and guidelines that enable us to mitigate the potential adverse impact of foreign exchange rate risk. We do not engage in trading or other speculative activities with these transactions as established policies require that these hedging transactions relate to specific currency exposures. We currently do not have any such hedging transactions in place. Our main foreign exchange rate exposures relate to assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in British pounds, euros, Indian rupees, Chinese renminbi and Canadian dollars and the general economic exposure that fluctuations in these currencies could have on the U.S. dollar value of future non U.S. cash flows. To illustrate the potential impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on us for fiscal 2012, the net unhedged exposures in each currency were remeasured assuming a ten percent decrease in foreign exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar. Using this method, our EBIT for fiscal 2012 would have decreased by $4.2 million and our cash flow from operations for fiscal 2012 would have decreased by $2.4 million. This calculation assumed that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates, these changes may also affect the volume of sales or the foreign currency sales prices as competitors products become more or less attractive. Our sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not include any effects of potential changes in sales levels or local currency prices. At August 31, 2012, we had a nominal total debt of $0.2 million with a minimal interest rate. The estimated fair value of our debt at August 31, 2012 approximates its carrying value due to the short period until maturity. 25 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of highly engineered, application critical equipment and systems for the energy, industrial, chemical and pharmaceutical markets worldwide. With our acquisition of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3) on January 10, 2011 (the acquisition date), we are expanding and complementing our energy business in our Energy Services segment, and creating a stronger strategic platform with better scale to support future growth. We attribute our success to our close and continuing interaction with customers, our manufacturing, sourcing and application engineering expertise and our ability to serve customers globally. We have initiated programs to reduce our manufacturing footprint for specific product lines to improve asset utilization, and we have standardized more of the reactor system product offerings to leverage our supply chain, global manufacturing assets and functional resources. We are continuing to find ways to leverage strengths across the Company and identify new synergy opportunities. In fiscal 2013, we expect to continue our streamlining and profit margin expansion efforts in certain businesses and pursue our organic and strategic growth initiatives to improve our competitiveness, financial results, long term profitability and shareholder value. As more fully described in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (NOV, National Oilwell Varco), in an all cash transaction. Under the terms of the transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Robbins & Myers and NOV, upon the closing of the merger, our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share of Robbins & Myers they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval of our shareholders. On October 9, 2012, we received a request for additional information and documents from the U.S. Justice Department (often referred to as a second request) in connection with the proposed merger. Unless expressly noted to the contrary, all forward looking statements in the discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that follows relate to the Company on a stand alone basis and are not reflective of the impact of the proposed merger with NOV. We continued to experience positive results during fiscal 2012 in major geographic areas and end markets, with most products achieving revenue growth and improved margins driven by strong backlog at the beginning of fiscal 2012 and higher orders in fiscal 2012, along with benefits from our past restructuring and continuing cost containment initiatives. We are seeing our energy markets moderating, but remain at relatively high levels and continued growth in certain chemical and industrial markets. We are cautiously optimistic that with our order trends and record backlog in both our segments at the end of fiscal 2012, we will continue to see improved operating results in fiscal 2013. With approximately 43% of our sales outside the United States, we can be affected by changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currencies in non U.S. countries in which we operate. The impact on net income, sales and orders due to foreign exchange changes was not material for fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with related gains or losses reported as a separate component of our shareholders equity, except for Venezuela, which is reported following highly inflationary accounting rules under U.S. GAAP. The marginal weakening of most foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2012 did not materially impact our financial condition at the end of fiscal 2012 as compared with the end of fiscal 2011. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we changed the composition of our reportable segments to reflect organizational, management and operational changes implemented in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company now reports results in two business segments consisting of Energy Services and Process & Flow Control. The Company previously reported its operations under the Fluid Management segment and the Process Solutions segment. The businesses in our Energy Services segment provide mission critical products to customers in the upstream oil and gas markets for use in drilling and exploration, production and completion, and pipeline transmission infrastructure. Major products include power sections for drilling motors, blowout preventers, down hole progressing cavity pumps, drive systems and automation, wellhead equipment, frac manifolds and trees, high pressure engineered gate valves and a broad line of ancillary equipment for the energy sector, such as rod guides, rod and tubing rotators, pipeline closure products and valves. Our Energy Services segment includes products and services sold under the Robbins & Myers Energy Systems&reg; and T 3&reg; brands. Our Process & Flow Control segment targets industrial customers in the industrial chemical, pharmaceutical, wastewater treatment, food and beverage, and other end markets. Products include glass lined reactors and thermal heat exchangers, progressing cavity pumps for industrial applications and surface transfer of viscous fluids, mixing equipment and engineered systems used to filter and process various liquids and materials. Primary brands in our Process & 13 Flow Control segment include Pfaudler&reg;, Moyno&reg;, Chemineer&reg; and Edlon&reg;. We believe that this strategic realignment, which is reflected in our financial reporting for all periods presented, will enable us to have greater focus on our primary end markets while creating additional opportunities to more efficiently serve common customers and to leverage strengths across product groups. As mentioned above, on January 10, 2011, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock and voting interest of T 3. The operating results of T 3 are included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date in our Energy Services segment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we divested our Romaco businesses (Romaco segment). This divestiture was part of the Companys portfolio management process and operating strategy to simplify the business and improve its profit profile, and to focus on growing the Company around core competencies. The results of operations for our Romaco segment are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. With the sale of the Romaco segment and our realignment as discussed above, our business consists of two market focused segments: Energy Services and Process & Flow Control. Energy Services. Order levels from customers served by our Energy Services segment moderated in the second half of fiscal 2012, but continued to show year over year improvements in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Our primary objectives for this segment are to grow sales by increasing our capacity to meet current demand, expanding our geographic reach, improving our selling and product management capabilities, commercializing new products in our niche market sectors, developing new customer relationships, and expanding our aftermarket business. Our Energy Services business segment designs, manufactures, markets, repairs and services equipment and systems including power sections for drilling motors, blow out preventers, down hole progressing cavity pumps, drive systems and controllers, wellhead equipment, frac manifolds and trees, high pressure engineered gate valves, and a broad line of ancillary equipment for the energy sector, such as rod guides, rod and tubing rotators, pipeline closure products and valves. These products are primarily used in upstream oil and gas exploration and recovery applications. Process & Flow Control. Our Process & Flow Control segment orders improved in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011, achieving the highest levels since fiscal 2008. Pricing began to show improvement in fiscal 2012, but has not fully recovered, especially in the European chemical markets. Our primary objectives for this segment are to reduce operating costs in developed regions, increase manufacturing capabilities in low cost areas, standardize our products to increase operating flexibility, integrate our global operations and increase our focus on aftermarket opportunities. Our Process & Flow Control business segment designs, manufactures and services glass lined reactors and storage vessels, customized equipment and systems and customized fluoropolymer lined fittings, industrial progressing cavity pumps and complementary products such as grinders and customized fluid agitation equipment and systems primarily for the pharmaceutical, industrial and specialty chemical markets. 14 Results of Operations The following tables present components of our Consolidated Statement of Income and segment information for our continuing operations. Consolidated 2012 2011 2010 Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 61.1 62.8 66.8 Gross profit 38.9 37.2 33.2 SG&A expenses 17.5 19.1 22.8 Other expense 0.3 2.1 0.6 EBIT 21.1 % 16.0 % 9.8 % By Segment 2012 2011 2010 Energy Services: (In millions, except percents) Sales $ 665.5 $ 477.2 $ 201.6 EBIT 198.0 131.0 61.7 EBIT % 29.8 % 27.4 % 30.6 % Process & Flow Control: Sales $ 369.3 $ 343.4 $ 276.6 EBIT 41.4 26.8 4.9 EBIT % 11.2 % 7.8 % 1.8 % Consolidated: Sales $ 1,034.8 $ 820.6 $ 478.2 EBIT 218.6 131.3 46.9 EBIT % 21.1 % 16.0 % 9.8 % The comparability of the operating results has been impacted by NOV merger related costs in fiscal 2012 and T 3 merger related costs in fiscal 2011, as well as restructuring costs in fiscal 2011 and 2010. See Note 7 Statement of Income Information in Item 8 of this Report for further discussion. In addition, the comparability of the segment data is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to the translation of non U.S. dollar denominated subsidiary results into U.S. dollars, acquisition of T 3 (included in our Energy Services segment) on January 10, 2011, as well as general economic conditions in the end markets we serve. The Companys operating performance is evaluated using several measures. One of those measures, EBIT, is income before interest and income taxes and is reconciled to net income on our Consolidated Statement of Income. We evaluate performance of our business segments and allocate resources based on EBIT. EBIT is not, however, a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as a measure of our operating results. EBIT is not a measure of cash available for use by management. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2012 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2011 Net Sales Consolidated net sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 were $1,034.8 million, or $214.1 million higher than fiscal 2011 net sales, an increase of 26%. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the T 3 acquisition, net sales increased by $100.8 million, or 16%, due to higher sales in both of our segments in fiscal 2012. The Energy Services segment, which includes T 3 results since January 10, 2011, had sales of $665.5 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $477.2 million in fiscal 2011. The T 3 acquisition contributed $127.0 million in additional sales over the prior year, with $78.4 million due to T 3 being owned for only a partial period of the prior year and the remaining due to strong demand in fiscal 2012, as discussed below. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and T 3 acquisition, sales in fiscal 2012 increased $64.1 million, or 21%. This volume increase was primarily due to higher customer demand resulting from higher oil prices worldwide in fiscal 2012 and increased expenditure for drilling activity as exploration and production companies invested to capture oil and 15 gas from shale formations in North America. Orders for this segment were impacted by the same factors and were $714.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $517.8 million in fiscal 2011. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, orders in fiscal 2012 grew $61.9 million, or 21%, due to strong market conditions. Ending backlog at August 31, 2012 was $169.7 million compared with $121.3 million at August 31, 2011. The Process & Flow Control segment had sales of $369.3 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $343.4 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $25.9 million, or 8%. Excluding currency impact, sales in fiscal 2012 increased $36.7 million, or 11%, from the prior year, reflecting improved market conditions in certain served end markets. Segment orders in fiscal 2012 continued to improve from fiscal 2011 and were $386.6 million, compared with $358.5 million in fiscal 2011. Excluding currency impact, orders increased $38.4 million, or 11%, in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011, reflecting improved demand in certain end markets outside Europe. Ending backlog at August 31, 2012 was $138.1 million compared with $129.8 million at August 31, 2011. Income Before Interest and Income Taxes (EBIT) Consolidated EBIT from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 was $218.6 million compared with $131.3 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $87.3 million. The T 3 business acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 contributed $42.3 million of the consolidated EBIT increase, including $5.9 million of T 3 merger related costs incurred at Corporate and $19.7 million of higher amortization related to customer backlog, severance costs and inventory write up values expense in the Energy Services segment which did not recur in fiscal 2012. The current year EBIT includes $3.0 million of expense related to the NOV merger. The remaining $48.0 million increase in consolidated EBIT was mainly attributable to the higher sales volume described above in all our business platforms and a favorable sales mix in our Energy Services segment. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. The Energy Services segment had EBIT of $198.0 million in fiscal 2012, compared with $131.0 million in the prior year, an increase of $67.0 million. The T 3 business acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 contributed $36.4 million of the increase. The prior year EBIT included merger related expenses of $19.7 million for higher amortization related to customer backlog, severance and expense due to inventory write up values. The remaining increase in EBIT of $30.6 million was mainly due to the higher sales volume described above and an improved product sales mix. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. The Process & Flow Control segment had EBIT of $41.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $26.8 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $14.6 million. The increase in EBIT was due principally to the higher sales volume in fiscal 2012 described above. Fiscal 2011 had $1.2 million of pension curtailment costs related to one of our U.S. operations and restructuring costs of $1.0 million related to our German operations, that did not recur in fiscal 2012. The exchange rate impact on EBIT was minimal. Corporate costs were $5.6 million lower in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Merger related costs, NOV in fiscal 2012 and T 3 in fiscal 2011, were $2.9 million lower. The remaining decrease is from lower compensation costs related to the departure of an executive officer in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, lower pension costs and foreign currency gains. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 30.9% for fiscal 2012 compared with 38.2% in fiscal 2011. The current year effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate in fiscal 2011, primarily due to audit settlements in fiscal 2012 and the related release of unrecognized tax benefit balances, as well as increased income in our foreign locations which have lower effective tax rates. Additionally, fiscal 2011 included the recording of an additional valuation allowance of $7.0 million for certain deferred tax assets in our Process & Flow Control segment. Net Income Our net income in fiscal 2012 was $150.0 million compared with $134.0 million in fiscal 2011, which includes income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $53.6 million (see Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report). Net income from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 was $150.0 million, compared with $80.4 million in fiscal 2011. The increase in fiscal 2012 net income from continuing operations was primarily driven by the contribution of the prior year T 3 acquisition for the full year, higher sales volume, favorable product mix, lower merger related charges and a lower effective tax rate. 16 Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2011 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Net Sales Consolidated net sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 were $820.6 million, or $342.4 million higher than fiscal 2010 net sales, an increase of 72%. Excluding the impact of currency translation and the T 3 acquisition, net sales increased by $152.4 million, or 32%, due to higher sales in both of our segments in fiscal 2011. The Energy Services segment, which included T 3 results since January 10, 2011, had sales of $477.2 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $201.6 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding the impacts of foreign currency translation and T 3 acquisition, sales in fiscal 2011 increased $91.7 million, or 45%. The increase was primarily due to strong growth in horizontal rigs, as exploration and production companies invested to capture oil and gas from shale formations in North America. Orders for this segment were $517.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $218.4 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, orders in fiscal 2011 grew $78.4 million, or 36%, due to strong market conditions. Ending backlog at August 31, 2011, including T 3 backlog of $91.3 million, was $121.3 million compared with $27.1 million at August 31, 2010. The Process & Flow Control segment had sales of $343.4 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $276.6 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $66.8 million, or 24%. Excluding currency impact, sales in fiscal 2011 increased $60.7 million, or 22%, from the prior year, due to improving demand for capital goods in global chemical markets. Segment orders in fiscal 2011 continued to improve from fiscal 2010 and were $358.5 million, compared with $303.5 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency impact, orders increased $49.9 million, or 16%, in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, reflecting improved demand in certain end markets outside Europe. Ending backlog at August 31, 2011 was $129.8 million compared with $109.7 million at August 31, 2010. Income Before Interest and Income Taxes (EBIT) Consolidated EBIT from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 was $131.3 million compared with $46.9 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $84.4 million. Excluding the impacts of currency translation and operating results of T 3, consolidated EBIT in fiscal 2011 increased by $67.2 million. This increase in consolidated EBIT was mainly attributable to the higher sales volume described above in all our business platforms and a favorable sales mix in our Energy Services segment. We also experienced $1.8 million of lower restructuring charges in our Process & Flow Control segment in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. The Energy Services segment had EBIT of $131.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $61.7 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding currency and acquisition impacts, EBIT for fiscal 2011 increased by $51.8 million, or 84%, due principally to the sales increase and a favorable product mix. The Process & Flow Control segment had EBIT of $26.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared with $4.9 million in fiscal 2010. This increase in EBIT resulted from higher sales volume in fiscal 2011, as well as lower restructuring charges of $1.8 million. Corporate costs were $6.8 million higher in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, primarily due to $5.9 million of costs associated with professional fees and accelerated stock compensation expense related to the T 3 merger transaction. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 38.2% for fiscal 2011 compared with 35.2% in fiscal 2010. The fiscal 2011 effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate in fiscal 2010, primarily due to the recording of an additional valuation allowance of $7.0 million for certain deferred tax assets in our Process & Flow Control segment. Excluding this impact, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate primarily due to certain U.S. permanent deductions and tax credits. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 from continuing operations approximated the U.S. federal statutory tax rate. 17 Net Income Our net income in fiscal 2011, which included income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $53.6 million (see Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report), was $134.0 million compared with $33.2 million in fiscal 2010, which included net income from discontinued operations of $3.9 million. Net income from continuing operations in fiscal 2011 was $80.4 million, compared with $29.3 million in fiscal 2010. The increase in fiscal 2011 net income was primarily driven by higher sales volume and a favorable product mix, somewhat reduced by charges relating to the acquisition of T 3 and a higher effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Activities In fiscal 2012, our cash inflow from operating activities was $160.4 million, compared with $101.0 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of $59.4 million. This increase in fiscal 2012 was primarily caused by higher net income from continuing operations of $69.6 million, reduced by increased funding for our pension plans of $6.8 million. The increase in working capital was a reduction in operating cash flow, although lower than the prior year impact. In fiscal 2011, our cash inflow from operating activities was $101.0 million, compared with $88.5 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $12.5 million. This increase was caused by higher net income, somewhat reduced by higher working capital needs in fiscal 2011 to support our sales and profit growth, payments for restructuring costs accrued at the end of fiscal 2010, increased funding for U.S. pension plans, and payments related to accruals in the opening balance sheet of T 3. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items. We expect our available cash, fiscal 2013 operating cash flow and availability under our credit agreement to be adequate to fund fiscal year 2013 operating needs, shareholder dividends, capital expenditures, and additional share repurchases, if any. Investing Activities In fiscal 2012, the Company continued to generate substantial cash from operating activities, which resulted in a strong year end financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 were $29.5 million in fiscal 2012 and were primarily related to our cost reduction and sales growth initiatives. In fiscal 2011, our net cash outflows relating to investing activities of $29.5 million included $90.4 million of cash used for the T 3 acquisition, net of cash acquired; cash proceeds from the sale of our Romaco businesses of $89.2 million and $28.3 million of capital expenditures. In fiscal 2010, our net cash outflows from investing activities of $8.1 million consisted of capital expenditures of approximately $10.6 million and asset sale proceeds of $2.5 million related to the sale of certain of our assets at two of our business units. The Company expects fiscal 2013 capital spending to be about 30% higher than fiscal 2012. Financing Activities Our cash outflows from financing activities for fiscal 2012 were $188.6 million which included $187.2 million in share repurchases, as more fully described in Note 14 of the financial statements at Item 8 of this Report. The decrease in net proceeds from stock activities in fiscal 2012 of $12.9 million primarily resulted from fewer stock option exercises in the current year. The large amount of option exercises in fiscal 2011 was attributable to the T 3 acquisition. Dividends paid during fiscal 2012 were $8.6 million, or $1.0 million higher than fiscal 2011, primarily due to additional shares issued in January 2011 related to our T 3 merger. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased in January 2012 from $0.045 to $0.050. 18 From available cash balances, we repaid the remaining $30.0 million of Senior Notes on the May 3, 2010 maturity date. On October 6, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized to repurchase up to 3.0 million of the Companys outstanding common shares, in addition to the approximately 1.0 million remaining available for repurchase under the October 2008 authorization by the Board of Directors. In fiscal 2012, the Company repurchased all the remaining 4.0 million shares for $187.2 million. Repurchases were funded from the Companys available cash balances. There were no such share repurchases in fiscal 2011 and 2010. On June 25, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2.0 million of the Companys currently outstanding common shares (the June 2012 Program). Repurchases under the June 2012 Program will generally be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions not exceeding prevailing market prices, subject to regulatory considerations and market conditions, and will be funded from the Companys cash and credit facilities. There were no repurchases under the June 2012 Program in fiscal 2012. Under the terms of the definitive merger agreement with NOV, we have agreed not to repurchase our common shares under the June 2012 Program pending consummation of the merger. The June 2012 Program will expire when we have repurchased all the authorized shares, unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution or consummation of the merger. Credit Agreement Our Bank Credit Agreement (the Agreement) provides that we may borrow, for the five year term of the Agreement, on a revolving credit basis up to a maximum of $150.0 million at any one time. In addition, under the terms of the Agreement, we are entitled, on up to six occasions prior to the maturity of the loan, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to increase the aggregate commitments under the Agreement in the aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million. All outstanding amounts under the Agreement are due and payable on March 16, 2016. Interest is variable based upon formulas tied to a Eurocurrency rate or an alternative base rate defined in the Agreement, at our option. Borrowings, which may also be used for general corporate purposes, are unsecured, but are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. While no amounts are outstanding under the Agreement at August 31, 2012, we have $23.7 million of standby letters of credit outstanding at August 31, 2012. These standby letters of credit are used as security for advance payments received from customers and for future payments to our vendors. Accordingly, under the Agreement, we have $126.3 million of unused borrowing capacity. The Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, default provisions and affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on indebtedness, liens, asset sales, mergers and other fundamental changes involving the Company, permitted investments, sales and lease backs, cash dividends and share repurchases, and financial covenants relating to interest coverage and leverage. As of August 31, 2012, we are in compliance with these covenants. We obtained a waiver from the lenders under the Agreement in connection with our pending merger with National Oilwell Varco, because the execution of the Merger Agreement and the merger would cause us to be in default under the Agreement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This Managements Discussion and Analysis is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. The more critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements are discussed below. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue at the time of title passage to our customer which is generally upon shipment of the product. We recognize revenue for certain longer term contracts based on the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion method requires estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. We follow this method because we can make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost applicable to various stages of a contract. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that gave rise to the revision become known. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Significant estimates made by us include the allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, deferred tax asset valuation allowance, warranty, litigation, product liability, tax contingencies, stock option valuation, goodwill and intangible valuation and retirement benefit obligations. Our estimate for uncollectible accounts receivable is based upon an analysis of our prior collection experience, specific customer creditworthiness, current economic trends within the industries we serve, specific customers ability to pay us and the length of time that the receivables are past due. Inventory valuation reserves are determined based on our assessment of the demand for our products and the on hand quantities of inventory in relation to historical usage. The inventory to which this reserve relates is still on hand and will be sold or disposed of in the future. The expected selling price of this inventory approximates its net book value; therefore, there is no significant impact on gross margin when it is sold. 19 We have recorded valuation allowances to reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that may not be realized based upon our analysis of the realization of tax benefits associated with the deferred tax assets. Future taxable income, reversals of temporary differences, available carryback periods, the results of tax strategies and changes in tax laws could impact these estimates. Warranty obligations are contingent upon product failure rates, material required for the repairs and service and delivery costs. We estimate the warranty accrual based on specific product failures that are known to us plus an additional amount based on the historical relationship of warranty claims to sales. We record litigation and product liability reserves based upon a case by case analysis of the facts, circumstances and estimated costs. Estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and are based on the best available information at the time we prepare our consolidated financial statements. These estimates are subject to change as conditions within and beyond our control change, including but not limited to economic conditions, the availability of additional information and actual experience rates different from those used in our estimates. Accordingly, actual results may differ from these estimates. Acquisition and Disposition On August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco in an all cash transaction. Under the terms of the transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Robbins & Myers, Inc. and NOV, upon the closing of the merger, our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share of Robbins & Myers they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval from our shareholders. On January 10, 2011 (the acquisition date), we completed our acquisition of T 3 Energy Services, Inc. (T 3), such that T 3 became a wholly owned subsidiary of Robbins & Myers, Inc. The operating results of T 3 are included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date within our Energy Services segment. See Note 4 Acquisition in Item 8 of this Report. The merger was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations. Accordingly, we made an allocation of the purchase price at the acquisition date based upon our estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities obtained during our due diligence process and through other sources, including through tangible and intangible asset appraisals. Additionally, as required by ASC 805, all integration related costs, including professional fees and severance, were expensed as incurred. In fiscal 2011, we completed the sale of all the shares and equity interest in our Romaco businesses (Romaco segment). The results of our Romaco segment are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 5 Discontinued Operations in Item 8 of this Report. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is assessed on an annual basis, or more frequently as impairment indicators arise. Due to the reconfiguration of our segments in fiscal 2012, impairment tests, which involve the use of estimates related to the fair market values of the business operations with which goodwill is associated at our reporting unit level, were performed at year end for fiscal 2012 (our annual impairment test date) using both a market approach, as well as a discounted cash flow methodology (income approach). The market approach determines the value of a reporting unit by deriving market multiples for reporting units based on assumptions potential market participants would use in establishing a bid price for the unit. This approach therefore assumes strategic initiatives will result in improvements in operational performance in the event of purchase, and includes the application of a discount rate based on market participant assumptions with respect to capital structure and access to capital markets. The income approach uses a reporting units projection of estimated operating results and cash flows that are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital that reflects current and future market conditions. The projection uses managements best estimates of economic and market conditions over the projected period, including growth rates in sales, costs, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins and cash expenditures. Other significant estimates and assumptions include terminal value growth rates, future estimates of capital expenditures and changes in future working capital requirements. Our final estimate of fair value of reporting units is developed by a combination of the fair values determined through both the market and income approaches. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. Although our market participant assumptions and cash flow 20 forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the market environment and plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in applying these assumptions to our valuations. The impairment testing performed by the Company at August 31, 2012 indicated that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its corresponding carrying amount, and, as such, no impairment existed. Our definite lived intangible assets are generally amortized on a straight line basis, with estimated useful lives ranging from under one year to 20 years. These assets are evaluated periodically and when events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to recover their carrying amount. When events and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of these definite lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value by preparing estimates of sales volume and the resulting gross profit and cash flows. If the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. We use a variety of methodologies to determine the fair values of these assets including discounted cash flow models, which are consistent with the assumptions we believe hypothetical marketplace participants would use. Losses, if any, resulting from impairment tests for goodwill and definite lived intangible assets would be reflected in income before interest and income taxes in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Foreign Currency Accounting Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of a transaction in a currency different from that used to record the transaction are charged or credited to net income when incurred. Adjustments resulting from the translation of non U.S. dollar functional currency denominated financial statements into U.S. dollars are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss in the Consolidated Balance Sheet (except Venezuela, which was reported under highly inflationary accounting rules since our second quarter of fiscal 2010 see below). Our Company has a Venezuelan subsidiary with net sales, operating income and total assets representing approximately one percent of our consolidated financial statement amounts for fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012. In early January 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency. Our subsidiary operated under a rate of 4.30 bolivars to the U.S. dollar, as compared with the previous rate of 2.15, and our fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 year end financial statements reflected this new rate. In addition, the financial statements of our Venezuelan subsidiary were consolidated and reported under highly inflationary accounting rules under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, with all gains or losses from remeasurement reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Income since the second quarter of fiscal 2010. We use permanently invested intercompany loans as a source of capital to reduce the exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our foreign subsidiaries. These loans are treated as analogous to equity for accounting purposes. Therefore, we record foreign exchange gains or losses on these intercompany loans in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Pensions We maintain defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans that provide retirement benefits to substantially all U.S. employees and certain non U.S. employees. Pension expense for fiscal 2012 and beyond is dependent on a number of factors including returns on plan assets and changes in plan discount rates and therefore cannot be predicted with certainty. A significant factor in determining the amount of expense recorded for a funded pension plan is the expected long term rate of return on plan assets. We develop the long term rate of return assumption based on the current mix of equity and debt securities included in plan assets and on the historical returns on those types of investments, judgmentally adjusted to reflect current expectations of future returns. At August 31, 2012, the weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets was 7.3%. In addition to the expected rate of return on plan assets, recorded pension expense includes the effects of service cost the actuarial cost of benefits earned during a period and interest on the plans liabilities to participants. These amounts are determined actuarially based on current discount rates and assumptions regarding matters such as future salary increases and mortality. Differences in actual experience in relation to these assumptions are generally not recognized immediately but rather are deferred together with asset related gains or losses. When cumulative asset related and liability related gains or losses exceed the greater of 10% of total liabilities or the calculated value of plan assets, the excess is amortized and included in pension income or expense. At 21 August 31, 2012, the weighted average discount rate used to value plan liabilities was 3.8%. We determine our discount rate based on an actuarial yield curve applied to the payments we expect to make out of our defined benefit plans. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications based on current rates and trends when appropriate. Additional changes in the key assumptions discussed above would affect the amount of pension expense currently expected to be recorded for years subsequent to fiscal 2012. Specifically, a one half percent decrease in the rate of return on assets assumption would have the effect of increasing pension expense by approximately $0.5 million. A comparable increase in this assumption would have the opposite effect. In addition, a one half percent increase in the discount rate would decrease pension expense by $0.4 million, and a comparable decrease in the discount rate would increase expense by approximately $0.6 million. New Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010 06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements, that amends existing disclosure requirements under ASC 820, by adding required disclosures about items transferring into and out of levels 1 and 2 in the fair value hierarchy; adding separate disclosures about purchase, sales, issuances, and settlements relative to level 3 measurements; and clarifying, among other things, the existing fair value disclosures about the level of disaggregation. This ASU was effective for us in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the requirement to provide level 3 activity of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis, which was effective beginning in our fiscal 2012. The remaining adoption of this standard in fiscal 2012 for level 3 activity disclosure did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations, that addresses diversity in practice about the interpretation of the pro forma revenue and earnings disclosure requirements for business combinations. The amendments in this standard specify that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior reporting period only. This standard also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures under ASC 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. This standard was effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2012 and its applicability will depend on future acquisitions. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs, that amends the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU achieve the objectives of developing common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs and improving their understandability. Some of the requirements clarify the FASBs intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements while other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with no early adoption permitted. This standard was effective for us beginning in our third quarter of fiscal 2012. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, that improves the comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income by eliminating the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. The amendments in this standard require that all non owner changes in stockholders equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under either method, adjustments must be displayed for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income (OCI) to net income, in both net income and OCI. The standard does not change the current option for presenting components of OCI gross or net of the effect of income taxes, provided that such tax effects are presented in the statement in which OCI is 22 presented or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Additionally, the standard does not affect the calculation or reporting of earnings per share. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 05, which defers only those changes in ASU No. 2011 05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments. All other requirements in ASU No. 2011 05 are not affected by this standard, including the requirement to report comprehensive income either in a single continuous financial statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. For public entities, the amendments in ASU No. 2011 05, as superseded by ASU No. 2011 12, are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and are to be applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. These standards will be effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2013. We do not expect the adoption of these standards to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, that gives both public and nonpublic entities the option to qualitatively determine whether they can bypass the existing two step goodwill impairment test under ASC 350 20. Under the new standard, if an entity chooses to perform a qualitative assessment and determines that it is more likely than not (a more than 50 percent likelihood) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it would then perform Step 1 of the annual goodwill impairment test in ASC 350 20 and, if necessary, proceed to Step 2. Otherwise, no further evaluation would be necessary. The decision to perform a qualitative assessment is made at the reporting unit level, and an entity with multiple units may utilize a mix of qualitative assessments and quantitative tests among its reporting units. This standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU No. 2012 02, Testing Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment, that gives both public and nonpublic entities the option to use a qualitative approach to test indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. ASU 2012 02 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset with its carrying value. Otherwise, the quantitative impairment test is not required. This standard is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012, with early adoption permitted. This standard will be effective for us beginning in our fiscal 2014. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 23 Contractual Obligations Following is information regarding our long term contractual obligations and other commitments outstanding as of August 31, 2012: Payments Due by Period Long term contractual obligations Total Oneyearor less Twotothreeyears Fourto fiveyears Afterfiveyears (In thousands) Debt obligations $ 153 $ 153 $ $ $ Operating leases (1) 17,224 5,785 7,584 2,413 1,442 Total contractual cash obligations $ 17,377 $ 5,938 $ 7,584 $ 2,413 $ 1,442 (1) Operating leases consist primarily of building and equipment leases. Unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $2,674,000, including interest and penalties, have been excluded from the table because we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments. The only other commercial commitments outstanding were standby letters of credit of $23,704,000. Of this outstanding amount, $16,306,000 is due within a year, $7,153,000 is due within two to three years and $245,000 is due within four to five years. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In fiscal 2011, the Company divested its Romaco businesses. In connection with this divestiture, the Company has provided certain representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the likelihood or the amount of potential liabilities from such matters. The Company does not believe that any such liability will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 24 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We maintain operations in the U.S. and foreign countries. We have market risk exposure to foreign exchange rates in the normal course of our business operations. Our significant non U.S. operations have their local currencies as their functional currency and primarily buy and sell using that same currency. The Company also operates in Venezuela, whose currency in 2010 became highly inflationary, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, causing us to utilize the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. Sales, operating income and total assets in Venezuela represent approximately one percent of our consolidated financial statement amounts. We manage our exposure to net assets and cash flows in currencies other than U.S. dollars by minimizing our non U.S. dollar net asset positions. Under certain conditions, we may enter into hedging transactions, primarily currency swaps, under established policies and guidelines that enable us to mitigate the potential adverse impact of foreign exchange rate risk. We do not engage in trading or other speculative activities with these transactions as established policies require that these hedging transactions relate to specific currency exposures. We currently do not have any such hedging transactions in place. Our main foreign exchange rate exposures relate to assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in British pounds, euros, Indian rupees, Chinese renminbi and Canadian dollars and the general economic exposure that fluctuations in these currencies could have on the U.S. dollar value of future non U.S. cash flows. To illustrate the potential impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on us for fiscal 2012, the net unhedged exposures in each currency were remeasured assuming a ten percent decrease in foreign exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar. Using this method, our EBIT for fiscal 2012 would have decreased by $4.2 million and our cash flow from operations for fiscal 2012 would have decreased by $2.4 million. This calculation assumed that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates, these changes may also affect the volume of sales or the foreign currency sales prices as competitors products become more or less attractive. Our sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not include any effects of potential changes in sales levels or local currency prices. At August 31, 2012, we had a nominal total debt of $0.2 million with a minimal interest rate. The estimated fair value of our debt at August 31, 2012 approximates its carrying value due to the short period until maturity. 25 
</SECTION>
