<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: MOLECULAR DEVICES CORP
CIK: 0001003113
SIC: 3826
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, and the risks detailed from time to time in the Companys future U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of these statements. We assume no duty to update any of the forward looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these statements to actual results. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. PART I Item 1. Business. The Company We are a leading supplier of high performance bioanalytical measurement systems that accelerate and improve drug discovery and other life sciences research. Our systems and consumables enable pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to leverage advances in genomics, proteomics and parallel chemistry by facilitating the high throughput and cost effective identification and evaluation of drug candidates. Our solutions are based on our advanced core technologies that integrate our expertise in engineering, molecular and cell biology and chemistry. We enable our customers to improve research productivity and effectiveness, which ultimately accelerates the complex process of discovering and developing new drugs. We were incorporated in California in 1983 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1995. On January 28, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger with MDS Inc. (MDS) and Monument Acquisition Corp. (Monument), a subsidiary of MDS, which contemplates the acquisition by MDS, through Monument, of all of our outstanding common stock in a two step transaction comprised of a cash tender offer for all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, followed by a merger of Monument with and into us. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Monument has commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock at a price of $35.50 per share, net to the holder thereof in cash. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, as soon as practicable after the consummation of the tender offer and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions set forth in the definitive agreement, Monument will merge with and into us and we will become an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MDS. In this merger, each share of our common stock remaining outstanding following the consummation of the tender offer, other than each share held by MDS or Monument or by any stockholder who has validly exercised appraisal rights under Delaware law, will be converted into the right to receive $35.50 in cash. The obligation of Monument to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the tender offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of closing conditions set forth in the definitive agreement, including among others, the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. In addition, it is also a condition to Monuments obligation to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the tender offer that at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of our common stock (determined on a fully diluted basis including any unvested stock options that would vest by their terms on or before June 30, 2007, but disregarding any other unvested stock options) will have been validly tendered in accordance with the terms of the tender and not validly withdrawn. The closing of the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement is subject to customary closing conditions, and, depending on the number of shares held by MDS and Monument after Monuments acceptance of the shares properly tendered in connection with the tender offer, approval of the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement by the holders of the outstanding shares of our common stock remaining after the completion of the tender offer may be required. Industry Background In recent years, research in the life sciences industry has accelerated as funding from major private and public sources has significantly increased. This expansion of research activity has yielded discoveries that are currently fueling a revolution in our understanding of human health and disease. One major milestone, the sequencing of the human genome, was widely celebrated not only as an important scientific advance in itself, but also as a starting point for a much broader exploration of fundamental biological processes. The genome map is significant because genes and the proteins they encode play a central role in every aspect of the bodys functioning. Learning which genes code for various proteins, which proteins are involved in different biological events and how these proteins function or malfunction are all challenges that are now being tackled by scientists on an unprecedented scale. By better understanding biology at the level of genes, proteins and cells, researchers hope to discover the underlying causes of human diseases and determine new ways to treat them. 1 Table of Contents Because of their critical role in the body, proteins that malfunction or are present in abnormal quantities can cause problems that are manifested as diseases. Drugs typically fight illness by binding to such proteins, known as targets, and modifying their behavior to reduce their disease causing effects. Collectively, all of the pharmacologically active drugs currently on the market are aimed at approximately 400 distinct protein targets in the human body. The human genome map has revealed the existence of an additional 3,000 to 5,000 targets that may be associated with a variety of diseases. This expansion in the number of potential drug targets is driving increased activity in two areas of scientific inquiry, basic life sciences research and drug discovery. Understanding the role of genes and proteins in human health is a goal of basic life sciences research, which is conducted by a variety of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic and other organizations. The proliferation of genomic information and uncharacterized protein targets has enhanced the importance of such basic research in all of these settings. The process of gathering this wide range of new biological information involves a variety of techniques and tools. To identify genes and understand their functioning, researchers use microarray scanners, instruments that are designed to read gene chips. Studying proteins can involve a large number of test tube experiments; today, many such experiments are no longer performed in test tubes, but in plates with an array of wells known as microplates. With microplates, data can be obtained much more quickly than in the past using instruments called microplate readers. In addition to gene and isolated protein studies, biologists often conduct research on cells using the techniques of microscopy and electrophysiology. Electrophysiology is concerned with the flow of ions into and out of cells and utilizes electrical recording to measure this flow. The large toolkit available to life sciences researchers, including the methods mentioned above, is currently enabling a significant expansion in our understanding of disease processes. Once a proteins link to a disease is understood, the task of finding a drug that acts on the protein and treats the disease is undertaken primarily by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These companies typically own libraries of drug candidates comprising hundreds of thousands, or even millions, of chemical compounds. In order to determine which compounds are effective against a particular target, a test, or assay, must be developed to detect whether a compound has modified the behavior of the target. Then, in a process known as screening, this test must be repeated for each compound in the library. As life sciences research continues to unveil new targets, the task of screening large libraries of compounds against these targets represents both a great opportunity and a technological challenge for pharmaceutical companies. Accordingly, these companies have invested heavily in systems that automate and accelerate this process, often implementing drug screening factories where compounds are run through a battery of cellular and biochemical tests on high speed equipment around the clock. This trend toward industrializing drug candidate screening has gained momentum among pharmaceutical companies in recent years and continues to be a major driver of spending in the drug discovery market. Our Products We offer a full range of high performance bioanalytical tools including automated systems for pharmaceutical screening and a variety of general purpose research instruments. We group our product offerings into two families, life sciences research and drug discovery, to reflect the markets they primarily address. We operate in a single industry segment. We had revenues of $186.4 million in 2006, $182.0 million in 2005 and $149.1 million in 2004. Most of our products use optical technologies to detect the results of biological tests that occur in microplates. A microplate is a disposable vessel comprised of a standardized array of 96, 384 or 1,536 wells that are similar to small test tubes. This format has been widely adopted by scientists because it allows many experiments to be performed in parallel, enhancing the efficiency of research efforts. In recent years, customers have increasingly sought the cost and throughput benefits of the higher density 384 and 1,536 well configurations, a trend that we expect to continue. Life Sciences Research Products Our life sciences research products, which represented 63% of total revenues in 2006, 60% of total revenues in 2005 and 59% of total revenues in 2004, encompass our SpectraMax, GenePix, MetaMorph, Laser Capture Microdissection, Cellular Neurosciences, Liquid Handling and Threshold product lines. Microplate Detection Products Our microplate detection products consist of our SpectraMax and FlexStation families of advanced microplate readers. Microplate readers have become one of the most fundamental tools used in life sciences research by addressing the increasing need for the acquisition and processing of large quantities of biochemical and biological data. Because of the productivity gains offered by their multi sample format, microplates have largely replaced test tubes and cuvettes for many life sciences applications. 2 Table of Contents The basic principles of microplate readers are that light from an appropriate source is directed to a wavelength selection device, such as a monochromator, and its intensity is measured either before and after, or just after, passing through each of the sample wells of a microplate. Application of a mathematical formula to the light intensity measurements of each microplate well provides a measure of the sample present in the well. One type of measurement, known as optical density, is proportional to the concentration of the substance that is being measured. Other important types of light intensity measurement are fluorometry and luminometry, both of which provide quantitative information comparing the different samples in a microplate with each other. SpectraMax Our SpectraMax strategy has been to continue to introduce new products that include first of a kind features, as well as to offer varying feature sets and price points to address different market segments. We have historically focused on the premium end of the microplate reader market through offering products with advanced capabilities. Some of the first of a kind features that we have pioneered include the first reader and software capable of kinetic analysis, the first monochromator based reader that enabled continuous wavelength selection and the first reader capable of performance comparable to a spectrophotometer. In each case, we believe that the innovation helped expand the utility of microplate readers and, more broadly, the available market for microplate readers. Our SpectraMax family currently includes the following products: EMax. This product is aimed at the market for traditional microplate readers that do not require kinetic capability. We introduced it to provide a reader for customers in academia and other customers with restricted capital budgets. VMax. This product was the first microplate reader to offer kinetic read capability and is designed to address the needs of biochemists. VersaMaxTM. The VersaMax is our low cost variable wavelength offering that provides kinetic capability and temperature control. SpectraMax 340PC384. This product is a visible range microplate spectrophotometer, offering tunability and the additional capability of our patented PathCheck Sensor technology, which corrects common variability problems across wells of microplates. SpectraMax 190. The predecessor to this product was the first microplate reader that incorporated a monochromator for continuous wavelength selection. Wavelength selection provides for enhanced convenience and flexibility in assay design. In addition, the SpectraMax 190 also includes our patented PathCheck Sensor technology. SpectraMax Plus384. The SpectraMax Plus384 combines the high throughput of a microplate reader with the performance of a cuvette based spectrophotometer as a result of our patented PathCheck Sensor technology. It is capable of reading wavelengths as short as 190 nanometers and as long as 1,000 nanometers, the equivalent range to a spectrophotometer, and is compatible with both 96 well and 384 well microplates. Gemini XPS. Gemini was the worlds first dual scanning microplate spectrofluorometer, a configuration that allows the user to automatically optimize the instrument for particular assays. The Gemini XPS, introduced in 2004, is the most sensitive version of Gemini yet and is capable of fluorescence, luminescence and time resolved fluorescence measurements. Gemini EM. The Gemini EM features the ability to read microplates from either the top or the bottom, a capability that enables it to perform complex cell based assays. LMax II384. LMax was our first reader to offer customers sensitive luminescence detection in a bench top instrument. The second generation of LMax adds improved sensitivity, 384 well detection and the capability to integrate with laboratory robots. SpectraMax M2/M2e. These instruments incorporate the dual scanning monochromator technology of the Gemini family into a multimode reader with both absorbance and fluorescence detection. SpectraMax M2/M2e can read 96 and 384 well microplates using any of four different scanning techniques. This combination of features makes these highly versatile instruments capable of a wide range of applications. The SpectraMax M2e offers the additional option of bottom reading capability. SpectraMax M5/M5e. These instruments expand our multimode reader family by offering the performance features of SpectraMax M2/M2e with the flexibility of five different detection modes. Our most versatile benchtop readers, SpectraMax M5/M5e can measure absorbance, fluorescence intensity, fluorescence polarization, time resolved fluorescence and luminescence. The SpectraMax M5e offers the additional benefit of being certified for a popular assay known as HTRF. StakMax. Introduced in 2006, the StakMax is a microplate handling system that is compatible with all of our SpectraMax readers. This product allows users to automatically process magazines of 20, 40 or 50 microplates, greatly increasing the efficiency of laboratory operations. 3 Table of Contents FlexStation Our FlexStation system is a bench top workstation that integrates liquid handling and detection and has applications in drug discovery as well as life sciences research. This product offers flexibility to address a wide range of research applications by combining both multi channel, plate to plate fluid transfer and fluorescence measurement in one system. For drug discovery applications, FlexStation provides a convenient means of developing assays for later transfer to higher throughput screening. For basic and applied research in life sciences, the flexibility of this system enables scientists to develop, optimize and run their assays on one system with the same small footprint as a standard benchtop microplate reader. The FlexStation family comprises the following instruments and reagents: FlexStation II/II 384. Introduced in 2003, these instruments represent the second generation of FlexStation technology with dual monochrometer scanning, 8 or 16 channel fluid transfer and top or bottom reading. FlexStation II is compatible with 96 well microplates, while FlexStation II384 addresses both 96 well and 384 well formats. In addition to instrumentation, we offer proprietary reagent kits based on our successful FLIPR assay technology and optimized to perform on the FlexStation platform. These products are our FlexStation Calcium Assay Kit, FlexStation Calcium 3 Assay Kit, two formulations of the FlexStation Membrane Potential Assay Kit and our QBTTM Fatty Acid Uptake Assay Kit. FlexStation 3. This instrument, introduced in 2006, adds liquid handling capabilities to our popular SpectraMax M5/M5e platform, enabling an even wider variety of applications than previous generations of FlexStation. In addition to the assay kits that are compatible with FlexStation II/ II384, FlexStation 3 is capable of running our Calcium 4 Assay Kit and IMAP assays. GenePix Microarray Systems Because of the central role that genes play in human health and disease, the study of genes, or genomics, is a fundamental area of life sciences research. By studying the varying levels of gene expression among members of a population or between healthy and diseased tissues, researchers can learn the functions of tens of thousands of genes that constitute the genomes of humans and other complex organisms. Microarrays, which allow the high throughput identification of large numbers of genes, have been an enabling technology in this field. Our GenePix family, a complete line of instruments and software for analyzing microarrays, includes the following products: GenePix 4000B. The GenePix 4000B is the fastest and most compact microarray scanner on the market today. Unlike most commercially available scanners, this instrument acquires data simultaneously at two wavelengths, resulting in superior speed and a low error rate. Like all of our microarray scanners, the GenePix 4000B comes with our popular and user friendly GenePix Pro software for data acquisition and analysis. GenePix Professional 4200A. This instrument offers the performance of the GenePix 4000B with additional features such as four color scanning and enhanced flexibility. An optional accessory, the Autoloader 4200AL, automates the process of introducing microarrays to the instrument, an important feature for high volume laboratory environments. GenePix Personal 4100A. This instrument offers the superior performance of the GenePix family in a lower cost, more compact version that addresses the needs of the individual researcher. Acuity 4.0. This software package provides applications for advanced users, including data warehousing, sophisticated data analysis and visualization applications. It is compatible with the GenePix family of scanners as well as other commercially available microarray platforms. MetaMorph Imaging Software We offer software that works in tandem with microscope and camera systems to enable researchers to acquire images of cells and quantify and analyze the images in a variety of ways. This product family consists of the following software packages: MetaMorph. MetaMorph is a state of the art software package for capturing and analyzing cellular images. MetaMorphs functions include control of a wide variety of imaging devices as well as a large menu of tools for image processing and analysis. MetaFluor. MetaFluor software allows researchers to image and analyze ratiometric indicators of intracellular events. MetaVueTM. A lower cost version of MetaMorph, MetaVue is an entry level product tailored to common imaging applications. 4 Table of Contents We sell MetaMorph either as a stand alone product or as part of an integrated system including a camera, software and peripherals. We are an authorized reseller of cameras and peripheral equipment for several major manufacturers, including Nikon Corporation and Roper Industries, Inc. Additionally, we have authorized several value added resellers, who integrate multiple components to create complete imaging systems, to distribute MetaMorph. Laser Capture Microdissection Laser Capture Microdissection (LCM) is a sophisticated sample preparation technology for genomic and imaging analysis that is an upstream step for many of our GenePix and MetaMorph customers. LCM allows researchers to visualize and extract individual cells or groups of cells from tissue samples with minimal damage. The selective capture of specific cells through LCM allows researchers to quickly and accurately utilize the smallest and purest cellular samples for further RNA, DNA or protein analysis. In 2006, we acquired the LCM business from Arcturus Bioscience, Inc. (Arcturus), and we now offer the following systems and reagents: Arcturus XTTM. This open architecture system is built upon the Nikon TE2000U(R) inverted research grade microscope and combines infrared laser enabled LCM and ultraviolet laser cutting in a single modular instrument, offering researchers superior speed, precision and flexibility. It is completely modular and fully upgradeable, allowing the system utility to expand as research requirements grow and microdissection technologies emerge. PixCell IIe. This is a dedicated LCM instrument that offers researchers a simple, rapid and effective tool for selecting cells of interest from a tissue sample. The system, like all of our LCM instruments, utilizes our CapSure disposable caps for clean and accurate retrieval of user defined cell populations. VeritasTM. This system offers both LCM and laser cutting, enabling researchers to prepare samples from a wide variety of tissue types. Veritas is highly automated, simplifying the LCM process and enabling researchers to operate the system with minimal training. Reagents. We offer several reagent kits that are optimized for the Veritas and PixCell IIe and allow researchers to isolate RNA and DNA and amplify RNA from a variety of tissue types. Cellular Neurosciences Research We are a leading supplier of signal amplification instruments and related software for cellular neurosciences research, offering a range of products for voltage recording, current and voltage clamping and patch clamping. Our microelectrode amplifiers are more sensitive than any competing product, enabling scientists to perform experiments that would otherwise be impossible. In addition, we offer software packages for the acquisition and analysis of electrophysiological data and various accessories for the electrophysiology workstation. Our products for cellular neurosciences research consist of the following: Digidata 1440A. The Digidata 1440A is a high speed, low noise data acquisition system that is compatible with our pCLAMP 10.0 software. pCLAMP 10.0. Introduced in 2006, pCLAMP 10.0 is our latest generation software package for acquisition and analysis of electrophysiological data. MultiClamp 700B. MultiClamp 700B is a computer controlled microelectrode amplifier that is used for high speed current clamp, patch clamp, voltammetry/amperometry, ion selective measurement, and bilayer recordings. Axopatch 200B. Axopatch 200B patch clamp is the latest version of our premier patch clamp amplifier, incorporating capacitor feedback technology for single channel recording as well as resistive feedback for whole cell recording. Axoclamp 900A. Axoclamp 900A is a computer controlled microelectrode current clamp and voltage clamp amplifier, useful for a wide range of intracellular microelectrode recording techniques with several modes of operation. Liquid Handling Systems We offer a line of liquid handling systems that includes a variety of cell and plate washers with 96, 384 and 1,536 well dispensing and washing capabilities. Washers dispense and remove fluid from microplates and are used as an integral step during the course of many assays. Our liquid handling systems bring a complete line of state of the art microplate washers and other related tools, including cell harvesters, to the life sciences research product family. 5 Table of Contents Threshold System As a result of the growing number of biopharmaceutical therapeutics both entering clinical trials and receiving regulatory approval for commercial sale, there is demand for systems that can quantitate contaminants in the manufacturing and quality control of bioengineered products. Our Threshold system, which comprises a detection instrument and reagents, incorporates a proprietary technology to quantitate a variety of biomolecules such as DNA, proteins and mRNA rapidly and accurately. The Threshold system emerged from a need by biopharmaceutical companies for more sensitive and reproducible methods to detect contaminants in biopharmaceuticals during the manufacturing and quality control process. The Threshold family of products includes a workstation, software and consumable reagent kits. Drug Discovery Products Our drug discovery systems, which represented 37% of our total revenues in 2006, 40% of our total revenues in 2005 and 41% of our total revenues in 2004, are used to screen large numbers of chemical compounds to assess their effects on disease targets. This category includes our FLIPR, Automated Electrophysiology, High Throughput Imaging and Analyst product families. FLIPR System and Reagent Kits Since its introduction in 1995, our FLIPR system has become the industry standard for the automated testing of compounds in live cells. Because they provide highly biologically relevant results, live cell assays are valuable tools for drug discovery. Many important target classes are best studied in live cells, including the most popular target class, G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). FLIPR addresses a key market need for automating a common GPCR test based on the phenomenon of calcium flux. The activation of many types of GPCRs triggers a release of calcium within the cell, an event that can be detected using a calcium sensitive fluorescent dye. Because this assay requires live cells and produces only a brief signal, it cannot be performed on standard bioanalytical instruments. FLIPRs optical and fluidic systems are specialized for this type of assay, automating the process and enabling multiple experiments to be performed simultaneously in microplates. Because of its unique configuration, FLIPR is also able to perform other complex live cell assays, such as detecting changes in cellular membrane potential. The latest generation of FLIPR is engineered to meet the industrialization requirements of our pharmaceutical company customers. Our FLIPR instrumentation is complemented by our FLIPR reagent kits, which use a proprietary technology to reduce the number of steps involved in live cell testing. FLIPRTETRA. This product is the fourth generation FLIPR instrument. It combines all of the benefits of preceding versions of FLIPR with new capabilities in a completely redesigned, compact platform. FLIPRTETRA features simultaneous liquid transfer of samples in 96, 384 and 1,536 well microplates, allowing customers to screen as many as 250,000 samples daily with little human intervention. In addition, the instrument enables excitation and detection at multiple wavelengths, enabling a broader set of applications, and incorporates interfaces that allow it to integrate into automated screening lines. FLIPR Assay Kits. This product family includes the FLIPR Calcium Assay Kit, the FLIPR Calcium 3 Kit, the FLIPR Calcium 4 Assay Kit, the QBT Fatty Acid Uptake Assay Kit and two formulations of the FLIPR Membrane Potential Assay Kit. By eliminating a step in the assay protocol, these kits can significantly increase throughput, reduce costs and increase screening efficiency. The FLIPR Calcium Assay Kit addresses the most popular assay performed on the FLIPR system for detecting the activation of GPCRs. The FLIPR Calcium 3 Assay Kit extends the applicability of this assay by allowing researchers to test problematic but important targets such as chemokines and other small peptides. The FLIPR Calcium 4 Assay Kit, introduced in 2006, features a new dye which allows researchers to detect very small calcium responses. The QBT Fatty Acid Uptake Assay Kit offers the only kinetic uptake assay in a one step, fluorescent format for detecting processes associated with diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The FLIPR Membrane Potential Assay Kits allow researchers to measure changes in the electrical potential across live cell membranes, a key indicator of ion channel activity. Automated Electrophysiology Systems In recent years, several drugs have been withdrawn from the market due to safety concerns, resulting in financial losses, negative publicity and ongoing litigation for some major pharmaceutical companies. As a result, drug companies are strengthening their efforts to understand more thoroughly the safety profile of prospective drugs before they are launched. Developing such a profile requires increased testing of a candidate compound to determine whether it interacts with certain biological pathways that are associated with adverse side effects. Among the most important of these pathways are those involving ion channels, cellular structures that mediate many key biological processes such as heart muscle contractions. Accordingly, ion channel testing is receiving increased attention as a way of identifying compounds that may put patients at risk for cardiac arrest. 6 Table of Contents We are an industry leader in automated tools for testing ion channels, which are important both as a target class and for their role in producing drug side effects. Traditionally, the most valuable information on ion channel activity has been obtained through patch clamping, a time consuming, low throughput method that is best performed by highly skilled scientists. Few high throughput alternatives exist for direct patch clamping. Those that do use indirect methods to assay ion channels, which yield lower quality data than patch clamping. Our Automated Electrophysiology products are automated systems that obtain the same high quality information from cells as conventional patch clamping, but at a much faster rate and requiring far less operator skill. While traditional patch clamping may allow researchers to test only 5 15 compounds per day, our Automated Electrophysiology systems operate at speeds ranging from hundreds to thousands of compounds per day. IonWorks Quattro. This is a turnkey system for drug discovery screening and safety profiling that enables customers to obtain up to 400,000 data points per year, the highest throughput currently available. The system consists of an instrument and a family of proprietary consumables. PatchXpress 7000A. This system offers automated patch clamping with a high degree of flexibility. It is capable of performing tests on the two major types of ion channels, voltage gated and ligand gated, and generating an entire response curve for each cell tested. Like the IonWorks Quattro, this system operates using its own proprietary consumable plate. OpusXpress 6000A. OpusXpress 6000A is an automated solution for the early stage process of ion channel target identification, and enables efficient pharmacological testing in the later stages of drug discovery research. High Throughput Imaging Systems One of the most powerful ways to study the activity of unknown or poorly characterized proteins is to visualize their movements within cells. By capturing images of proteins at work, researchers obtain more detailed information about potential drug targets than is possible with non image based methods. Life sciences researchers have used microscopes to visualize cellular events for centuries; more recently, digital cameras and sophisticated image analysis software have greatly enhanced this process. The latest advance in this field has been the automation of image capture and analysis to allow tens of thousands of microscopic cellular assays to be performed in a single day. This technology is particularly attractive to pharmaceutical companies that require high throughput imaging to capitalize on new drug targets and to run these tests on thousands or even millions of chemical compounds. To address this need, we offer a family of imaging systems that enable customers to conduct microscope studies in an automated, high throughput fashion. Our products include the following advanced instruments, software and proprietary technology for performing cell based assays: ImageXpress Micro. This fully integrated hardware and software system for high throughput imaging features custom optics for the most efficient light path and highest resolution possible. It is our most compact, cost effective and modular imaging system to date. The system design is optimized for speed, utilizing an all new high speed laser auto focus option that allows for the acquisition of more than 50,000 wells per day. Its small footprint requires minimal lab space, and it features an automated door for robotic plate loading access. ImageXpress UltraTM. The ImageXpress Ultra imaging system is a fully integrated true point scanning confocal system for automated acquisition and analysis of images for high throughput cell based screening. The bench top system utilizes up to four configurable solid state lasers. The throughput and resolution of the ImageXpress Ultra is comparable to larger, more expensive confocal commercial systems. ImageXpress 5000A. ImageXpress 5000A is an integrated hardware and software system capable of very rapid image acquisition and sophisticated image analysis. The system can be easily upgraded to allow environmental control and liquid handling, both of which enable live cell imaging applications. MetaXpress and AcuityXpress. Our imaging systems incorporate MetaXpress software, which is built on our industry leading MetaMorph software for cellular imaging. In addition, an option available with all of our imaging systems is AcuityXpress cellular informatics software, designed for enterprise level data mining of high throughput screening experiments. Transfluor. Transfluor is a patented, cell based fluorescence technology that is used in conjunction with high throughput imaging systems. It is the most versatile technology available for screening GPCRs. It has been successfully validated on over 90 GPCRs and is unique in its ability to test all of the different categories of GPCRs. Transfluor has been established as a gold standard high throughput imaging assay by many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and is considered an integral part of their drug discovery processes. 7 Table of Contents Analyst System and Reagent Kits Our Analyst family of products provides industry leading flexibility and throughput for a wide range of biochemical assays. Instruments in this family feature several different detection technologies, allowing customers to choose the one that is optimal for their particular screen. One of these detection modes, fluorescence polarization (FP), has become popular in recent years because it enables assays to be performed with greatly simplified protocols. We were pioneers in developing the market for FP and we have successfully applied this technology to screening kinases, an important target class. Traditionally, tests of kinase activity have been performed using multi step protocols that involve radioactive labels or highly specific antibodies. Because radioactivity is hazardous and antibody production is practical for only a small number of kinases, customers have sought better assays as the popularity of kinase targets has increased. To address this, we developed IMAP, a simple, non radioactive, antibody free technology that allows accurate determination of enzyme activity for a wide variety of kinases and phosphatases. Analyst GT. This multi mode system features seven detection options and the ability to read 96, 384 and 1,536 well microplates. With the capacity to test over 400,000 wells per day, Analyst GT is designed to address the industrialized screening needs of the drug discovery market. IMAP Technology. A proprietary bead based platform, IMAP allows researchers to determine the activity of kinases, phosphatases and phosphodiesterases in a simple, non radioactive format. We offer optimized kits for screening several of the most popular kinases as well as kits that enable our customers to apply this extremely flexible technology to their own protein kinase targets. IMAP assays were developed using FP technology, and in 2006 we extended the IMAP platform to incorporate TR FRET, another popular detection technology. Customer Service Our service and support offerings include field service, customer support, applications assistance and training through an organization of factory trained and educated service and application support personnel around the world. We offer services to our installed base of customers on both a contract and time and materials basis and we offer a variety of post warranty contract options for all of our instrument offerings. Our installed base provides us with stable, recurring after market service and support revenue, as well as product upgrade and replacement opportunities. Research and Development Our research and development team included 117 full time employees as of December 31, 2006. We have typically invested 13% to 15% of our revenues in research and development, which has resulted in a strong track record of technological innovation. In 2006, 65% of our revenues were derived from products that we introduced in the last three years. Our research and development expenditures were approximately $23.4 million in 2006, $25.3 million in 2005 and $22.0 million in 2004. We also incurred $4.3 million and $5.0 million of acquired in process research and development charges in 2006 and 2004, respectively. Our research and development activities are focused on: broadening our technology solution, including development of new proprietary reagent kits and additional solutions for automated ion channel testing and high throughput imaging; providing more sensitive quantitative evaluation of biological events; providing greater throughput capability, especially with smaller sample volumes; and developing increasingly sophisticated data management and analysis capability. Marketing and Customers As of December 31, 2006, our sales and marketing organization included 274 full time employees in North America, Europe, Asia, Australia and South America. We distribute our products primarily through direct sales representatives in North America. We have subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, China, South Korea, Australia and Brazil responsible for direct selling and servicing of our products. Our direct sales effort is supported by a team of service, technical and applications specialists employed by us. We also sell our products through international distributors, most of which enter into distribution agreements with us that provide for exclusive distribution arrangements and minimum purchase targets. Such agreements also generally prohibit the distributors from designing, manufacturing, promoting or selling any products that are competitive with our products. 8 Table of Contents Our customers include leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as medical centers, universities, government research laboratories and other institutions throughout the world. Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and identifiable assets attributable to our geographic regions is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2006 and 2005, no single customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues. Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for 47% of total revenues in 2006, 44% of total revenues in 2005 and 42% of total revenues in 2004, and total sales denominated in foreign currencies accounted for 32%, 29% and 31% of total revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will account for an increasing percentage of revenues in the future. We expect to continue expanding our international operations in order to take advantage of increasing international market opportunities resulting from worldwide growth in the life sciences industry. Our international operations expose us to a number of risks inherent in international business activities that are described under Item 1A Risk Factors below, including: political, social and economic instability; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; the impact of business cycles and downturns in economies outside of the United States; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export our products or sell into particular jurisdictions; import and export license requirements and restrictions; difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and monitoring geographically disparate operations; difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees and customers due to distance, language and cultural barriers; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; difficulties in enforcing agreements through non U.S. legal systems; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting receivables; potentially adverse tax consequences; and foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Manufacturing We manufacture our products at our facilities in Sunnyvale and Union City, both in California, and in Shanghai, China. Our California facilities are ISO 9001:2000 certified. We assemble Meta systems at our facility in Downingtown, Pennsylvania, which is also ISO 9001:2000 certified. We manufacture our own components where we believe it adds significant value, but we rely on suppliers for the manufacture of some of the consumables, components and subassemblies used with or included in our systems, which are manufactured to our specifications. We conduct all final testing and inspection of our products. We have established a quality control program, including a set of standard manufacturing and documentation procedures intended to ensure that, where required, our products are manufactured to comply with good manufacturing practices. Patents and Proprietary Technologies We protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Patents and other proprietary rights are an essential element of our business. Our policy is to file patent applications and to protect technology, inventions and improvements to inventions that are commercially important to the development of our business. As of December 31, 2006, we held 132 U.S. patents and other corresponding foreign patents based on our discoveries. These patents expire at various dates between 2007 and 2025. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had 44 and 46 patent applications pending in the United States and foreign countries, respectively. 9 Table of Contents We are a party to various license agreements that give us rights to use certain technologies. We pay royalties to the parties from which we licensed or acquired the core technologies. We also rely on trade secret, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect our intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technology. Competition The market for bioanalytical instrumentation is highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase. We compete for the allocation of customer capital funds with many other companies marketing capital equipment, including those not directly competitive with any of our products. Some of our products also compete directly with similar products from other companies. The life sciences research market is very competitive and includes a number of companies, such as Agilent Technologies Inc., Bio Tek Instruments, Inc., PerkinElmer, Inc., Tecan Group Ltd., and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., that offer, or may in the future offer, products with performance capabilities generally similar to those offered by our products. We expect that competition is likely to increase in the future, as several current and potential competitors have the technological and financial ability to enter the markets that we serve. Many of our life sciences research products are priced at a premium; in these markets, we compete primarily on the basis of performance and productivity. Many companies, research institutions and government organizations that might otherwise be customers for our products employ methods for bioanalytical analysis that are internally developed. The drug discovery market is characterized by intense competition among a number of companies, including GE Healthcare, a division of General Electric Company, Applied Biosystems, PerkinElmer, Inc., and Tecan Group Ltd., that offer, or may in the future offer, products with performance capabilities generally similar to those offered by our products. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the market for our products are throughput, quantitative accuracy, breadth of applications, ease of use, productivity enhancement, quality, support and price/performance. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. In addition to competing with us with respect to product sales, these companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific and management personnel. Government Regulation In the United States, the development, manufacturing, distribution, labeling and advertising of products intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions is extensively regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These products generally require FDA clearance before they may be marketed, and also are subject to post market manufacturing, reporting and labeling requirements. With the exception of certain of our SpectraMax microplate readers, none of our products is intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions, and, therefore, they are not currently subject to FDA regulation. The SpectraMax readers intended for diagnostic uses are the subject of an FDA marketing clearance. If we were to offer any of our other products for diagnostic uses, those products would become subject to FDA regulations. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we employed 631 persons full time, including 117 in research and development, 174 in manufacturing, 274 in marketing and sales and 66 in general administration and finance. Of these employees, 139 hold Ph.D. or other advanced degrees. None of our employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we consider relations with our employees to be good. Available Information We make available, free of charge, on or through our Internet address located at www.moleculardevices.com our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. This information may also be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC also maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. We will provide a copy of any of the foregoing documents to stockholders upon request. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition by MDS Inc. On January 28, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger with MDS Inc. (MDS) and Monument Acquisition Corp. (Monument), a subsidiary of MDS, which contemplates the acquisition by MDS, through Monument, of all of our outstanding common stock in a two step transaction comprised of a cash tender offer for all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, followed by a merger of Monument with and into us. The obligation of Monument to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the tender offer, as well as the completion of the merger, are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of closing conditions set forth in the definitive agreement, including among others, the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and the receipt of all material governmental authorizations, consents and approvals, as well as the absence of certain injunctions by court order that would restrain or prohibit the consummation of the merger. In addition, it is also a condition to Monuments obligation to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the tender offer that at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of our common stock (determined on a fully diluted basis including any unvested stock options that would vest by their terms on or before June 30, 2007, but disregarding any other unvested stock options) will have been validly tendered in accordance with the terms of the tender and not validly withdrawn. We cannot assure you that each of the conditions to the merger or Monuments obligation to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the tender offer will be satisfied. Further, depending on the number of shares held by MDS and Monument after Monuments acceptance of the shares properly tendered in connection with the tender offer, approval of the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement by the holders of the outstanding shares of our common stock remaining after the completion of the tender offer may be required. In the event stockholder approval of the merger is required, the consummation of the merger would be significantly delayed and the uncertainty resulting from any delay in consummating the merger could erode customer and employee confidence in us and divert our managements focus and resources from other operational matters. Our business and results of operations are likely to be affected by the announcement of the proposed merger with MDS. The announcement of the proposed merger could have an adverse effect on our business in the near term if our customers delay, defer or cancel purchases pending consummation of the proposed merger. Although we are attempting to mitigate this risk through communications with our customers, our customers could be reluctant to purchase our products or services due to uncertainty about the direction of the combined companys product offerings and its support and service of our existing products after the proposed merger. To the extent that our announcement of the proposed merger creates uncertainty among our customers such that any of our larger customers delay purchase decisions pending consummation of the proposed merger, our results of operations could be negatively affected. The proposed merger could also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and other personnel. In addition, activities relating to the proposed merger and related uncertainties could divert the attention of our management and employees from our day to day business, which could cause disruptions among our relationships with customers, and cause our employees to seek alternative employment, all of which could detract from our ability to generate revenue and control costs. The definitive agreement with MDS imposes certain restrictions on the operations of our business. Without MDS consent, we may be restricted from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the definitive agreement has terminated. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or the termination of the definitive agreement. In particular, we agreed not to solicit or engage in discussions with third parties regarding other proposals to acquire us, subject to specified exceptions. In connection with the termination of the definitive agreement under specified circumstances involving competing transactions or a change in our Board of Directors recommendation of the transaction to our stockholders, we may be required to pay MDS a termination fee of $23.0 million, and we may also be required to reimburse MDS transaction expenses up to $3.5 million, each subject to specified limitations. These provisions may deter third parties from proposing or pursuing alternative business combinations that might result in greater value to our stockholders than the transactions contemplated by the definitive agreement. 11 Table of Contents Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our products and collect accounts receivable and the timing of customer orders may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. The timing of capital equipment purchases by our customers has been and is expected to continue to be uneven and difficult to predict. Our products represent major capital purchases for our customers. Accordingly, our customers generally take a relatively long time to evaluate our products, and a significant portion of our revenue is typically derived from sales of a small number of relatively high priced products. Purchases are generally made by purchase orders and not long term contracts. Delays in receipt of anticipated orders for our relatively high priced products could lead to substantial variability from quarter to quarter. Furthermore, we have historically received purchase orders and made a significant portion of each quarters product shipments near the end of the quarter. If that pattern continues, even short delays in the receipt of orders or shipment of products at the end of a quarter could have a material adverse affect on results of operations for that quarter. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our products. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales process, the period between our initial contact with a customer and the time when we recognize revenues from that customer, if ever, varies widely. Our sales cycles typically range from three to six months, but can be much longer. During these cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenues, and we may never receive any revenues from a customer despite our sales efforts. The relatively high purchase price for a customer order contributes to collection delays that result in working capital volatility. While the terms of our sales orders generally require payment within 30 days of product shipment and do not provide return rights, in the past we have experienced significant collection delays. We cannot predict whether we will continue to experience similar or more severe delays. The capital spending policies of our customers have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Those policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including resources available to make purchases, spending priorities, and policies regarding capital expenditures during industry downturns or recessionary periods. Any decrease in capital spending by our customers resulting from any of these factors could harm our business. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility of future product shipments. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter and shipments from backlog. Our products are typically shipped within ninety days of purchase order receipt. As a result, we do not believe that the amount of backlog at any particular date is indicative of our future level of sales. Our backlog at the beginning of each quarter does not include all product sales needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Consequently, we are dependent on obtaining orders for products to be shipped in the same quarter that the order is received. Moreover, customers may reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, we have limited visibility of future product shipments, and our results of operations are subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, and increased competition could impair sales of our products. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for use in the life sciences research industry, from genomic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies and from academic and research institutions and government or other publicly funded agencies, both in the United States and elsewhere. We may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. Many of these companies and institutions have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which could impair sales of our products. Moreover, there has been significant merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors. These transactions by our competitors and potential competitors may provide them with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to rapidly expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Many of our customers and potential customers are large companies that require global support and service, which may be easier for our larger competitors to provide. We believe that competition within the markets we serve is primarily driven by the need for innovative products that address the needs of customers. We attempt to counter competition by seeking to develop new products and provide quality products and services that meet customers needs. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to successfully develop new products or that our existing or new products and services will adequately meet our customers needs. 12 Table of Contents Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions characterize the markets for our products. To remain competitive, we will be required to develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products in a timely manner. We are facing increased competition as new companies entering the market with new technologies compete, or will compete, with our products and future products. We cannot assure you that one or more of our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products or future products, or that would render our technologies and products obsolete or uneconomical. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to our current and future technologies, which we may not be able to do. In addition, delays in the launch of our new products may result in loss of market share due to our customers purchases of competitors products during any delay. If we are not successful in developing new and enhanced products, we may lose market share to our competitors. The life sciences research instrumentation market is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 65% of our revenues were derived from the sale of products that were introduced in the last three years, and our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce, on a timely basis, new products that address the evolving needs of our customers. We may experience difficulties or delays in our development efforts with respect to new products, and we may not ultimately be successful in developing or commercializing them, which would harm our business. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could cause our revenues to suffer, adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first to market advantage or cause a competitor to achieve greater market share. In addition, our future success depends on our continued ability to develop new applications for our existing products. If we are not able to complete the development of these applications, or if we experience difficulties or delays, we may lose our current customers and may not be able to attract new customers, which could seriously harm our business and our future growth prospects. We must expend a significant amount of time and resources to develop new products, and if these products do not achieve commercial acceptance, our operating results may suffer. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources to develop new products and refine existing products. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, these expenditures will be made well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenues from the sale of new products. Our ability to commercially introduce and successfully market new products is subject to a wide variety of challenges during this development cycle that could delay introduction of these products. In addition, since our customers are not obligated by long term contracts to purchase our products, our anticipated product orders may not materialize, or orders that do materialize may be canceled. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, our operating results will suffer. Our products are also generally priced higher than competitive products, which may impair commercial acceptance. We cannot predict whether new products that we expect to introduce will achieve commercial acceptance. We obtain some of the consumables, components and subassemblies used with or included in our systems from a single source or limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause customer supply or production delays and a substantial loss of revenues. We rely on outside vendors to manufacture some of the consumables, components and subassemblies used with or included in our systems. Certain consumables, components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our systems are obtained from a sole supplier or limited group of suppliers, some of which are our competitors. Additional components, such as optical, electronic and pneumatic devices, are currently purchased in configurations specific to our requirements and, together with certain other components, such as computers, are integrated into our products. We maintain only a limited number of long term supply agreements with our suppliers, and some of these agreements provide that the supplier is the exclusive supplier of a particular consumable, component or subassembly. Our reliance on a sole or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including the following: our suppliers may cease or interrupt production of required consumables, components or subassemblies or otherwise fail to supply us with an adequate supply of required consumables, components or subassemblies for a number of reasons, including contractual disputes with our suppliers or adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier; we have reduced control over the pricing of third party supplied consumables, components and subassemblies, and our suppliers may be unable or unwilling to supply us with required consumables, components and subassemblies on commercially acceptable terms, or at all; we have reduced control over the timely delivery of third party supplied consumables, components and subassemblies; and our suppliers may be unable to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new systems. 13 Table of Contents Because the manufacturing of certain of these consumables, components and subassemblies involves extremely complex processes and requires long lead times, we may experience delays or shortages caused by suppliers. We believe that alternative sources could be obtained and qualified, if necessary, for most sole and limited source parts, subject in certain cases to the terms of exclusive supply agreements with suppliers. However, if we were forced to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such consumables, components or subassemblies internally, we may be forced to redesign our systems, which could prevent us from shipping our systems to customers on a timely basis, and we may be liable to suppliers under the terms of existing supply agreements. Some of our suppliers have relatively limited financial and other resources. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries, or any other circumstance that would restrict our ability to ship our products, could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and could harm our business, and any disputes with suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may encounter manufacturing and assembly problems or delays, which could result in lost revenues. We manufacture our products at our facilities in Sunnyvale and Union City, both in California, and in Shanghai, China. Our manufacturing and assembly processes are highly complex and require sophisticated, costly equipment and specially designed facilities. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. If we cannot deliver our systems in a timely manner, our revenues will likely suffer. Our product sales depend in part upon manufacturing yields. We currently have limited manufacturing capacity and experience variability in manufacturing yields. We are currently manufacturing high throughput instruments in house, in limited volumes and with largely manual assembly. If demand for our high throughput instruments increases, we will either need to expand our in house manufacturing capabilities or outsource to other manufacturers. If we fail to deliver our products in a timely manner, our relationships with our customers could be seriously harmed, and our revenues could decline. As we develop new products, we must transition the manufacture of a new product from the development stage to commercial manufacturing. We cannot predict whether we will be able to complete these transitions on a timely basis and with commercially reasonable costs. We cannot assure you that manufacturing or quality control problems will not arise as we attempt to scale up our production for any future new products or that we can scale up manufacturing and quality control in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable costs. If we are unable to consistently manufacture our products on a timely basis because of these or other factors, our product sales will decline. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility will be harmed and the sales and market acceptance of our products will decrease. Our products are complex and have at times contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced. If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products would be harmed. Further, if our products contain errors, defects or bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to product liability as a result of product liability lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability arising from defects in our products. In the event of a successful product liability claim, we could be obligated to pay damages significantly in excess of our product liability insurance limits. We have significantly expanded our international operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in international business activities. We maintain facilities in the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Australia, China and Brazil. In addition to the increase in our international operations, we are also deriving an increasing portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the United States. Sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 47% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2006 and we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. A key aspect of our business strategy has been and is to expand our sales and support organizations internationally in order to take advantage of increasing international market opportunities resulting from worldwide growth in the life sciences research industry. 14 Table of Contents Our reliance on international sales and operations exposes us to a number of risks associated with conducting operations internationally, including: political, social and economic instability; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; the impact of business cycles and downturns in economies outside of the United States; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export our products or sell into particular jurisdictions; import and export license requirements and restrictions; difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and monitoring geographically disparate operations; difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees and customers due to distance, language and cultural barriers; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; difficulties in enforcing agreements through non U.S. legal systems; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting receivables; and potentially adverse tax consequences. If any of these risks materialize, our international sales could decrease and our foreign operations could suffer. In addition, all of our sales to international distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. Most of our direct sales in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Benelux, Scandinavia, Canada, Japan, Australia and South Korea are denominated in local currencies and totaled $60.3 million (32% of total revenues) for the year ended December 31, 2006. To the extent that our sales and operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Owing to the number of currencies involved, the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, and our constantly changing currency exposures, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, but may do so in the future. Most of our current and potential customers are from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and are subject to risks faced by those industries. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We expect that sales to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will continue to be a primary source of revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as availability of capital and reduction and delays in research and development expenditures by companies in these industries, pricing pressures as third party payers continue challenging the pricing of medical products and services, government regulation, and the uncertainty resulting from technological change. In addition, our future revenues may be adversely affected by the ongoing consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, which would reduce the number of our potential customers. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are our customers will not develop their own competing products or in house capabilities. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. We may have to pay substantial damages for infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe on a third partys proprietary rights. Further, any legal action against us could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, prohibit us from selling our products before we obtain a license to do so from the party owning the intellectual property, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Even if these claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. There may be third party patents that may relate to our technology or potential products. Any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources. 15 Table of Contents We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a large part of our intellectual property and our competitive position. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents; protect our trade secrets or know how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and divert managements attention from other business concerns. They would put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. We may also provoke third parties to assert claims against us. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in our industry are generally uncertain. If initiated, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, would be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors were to perceive any of these results to be negative, our stock price could decline. The rights we rely upon to protect our intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would reduce our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain commercially valuable patent claims and to protect our intellectual property. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in our technology field are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; the claims of any patents which are issued may not provide meaningful protection; we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; the patents licensed or issued to us or our customers may not provide a competitive advantage; other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our customers; patents issued to other companies may harm our ability to do business; other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; and other companies may design around the technologies we have licensed or developed. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the proprietary technology underlying our products. If these measures do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate 16 Table of Contents remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection or prosecute potential infringements of our patents. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may design around our proprietary technologies or may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights. We may have difficulty managing our growth. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and customers and the scope of our operations, including as a result of potential acquisitions. This growth may continue to place a significant strain on our management and operations. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to broaden our management team and our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon growth and acceptance of new products. If we cannot scale our business appropriately or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth and new product introductions, a key part of our strategy may not be successful. We rely upon distributors for product sales and support outside of North America. In the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 10% of our sales were made through distributors. We often rely upon distributors to provide customer support to the ultimate end users of our products. As a result, our success depends on the continued sales and customer support efforts of our network of distributors. The use of distributors involves certain risks, including risks that distributors will not effectively sell or support our products, that they will be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us and that they will cease operations. Any reduction, delay or loss of orders from our significant distributors could harm our revenues. We also do not currently have distributors under contract in a number of international markets and may need to establish additional international distribution relationships. There can be no assurance that we will engage qualified distributors in a timely manner, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business or technology in a cost effective and non disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. To this end, from time to time we have acquired complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, and we may choose to do so in the future. For example, we acquired the LCM business from Arcturus Bioscience, Inc. (Arcturus) in April 2006, intellectual property relating to the Transfluor technology from Xsira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Xsira) in March 2005 and acquired Axon Instruments, Inc. (Axon) in July 2004. We do not know if we will be able to complete any additional acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, operate it profitably or retain its key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire involves considerable operational and financial risks and strains, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management; the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of the operations, technology and other resources of acquired businesses; the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to restructuring, including employee severance or relocation costs and costs related to vacating leased facilities; and potential unknown liabilities associated with any acquisition, including higher than expected integration costs, which may cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate. 17 Table of Contents We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations, products, technology and personnel of acquired businesses in a timely manner or at all, or if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, in order to finance any acquisitions, we might need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. In that event, we could be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity financing, that may result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any impairment of goodwill and amortization of other intangible assets or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could harm our business and operating results. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of whom would impair our ability to compete. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, engineering and scientific staff. The loss of the service of any of these persons could seriously harm our product development and commercialization efforts. In addition, research, product development and commercialization will require additional skilled personnel in areas such as chemistry and biology, and software and electronic engineering. Our corporate headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California, where demand for personnel with these skills is extremely high and is likely to remain high. As a result, competition for and retention of personnel, particularly for employees with technical expertise, is intense and the turnover rate for qualified personnel is high. If we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. The inability to retain and hire qualified personnel could also hinder the planned expansion of our business. Changes to financial accounting standards or interpretations of those standards, may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in those principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those principles, the interpretation of those principles, or the questioning of current practices, may adversely affect our reported financial results or may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements, and could cause us to change the way we conduct our business. For example, accounting principles affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to equity related compensation, have recently been revised or are under review. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies have finalized changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles that required us, effective January 1, 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We will have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant and other equity incentive expensing that could reduce our overall net income. In addition, since we historically have used equity related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. Changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, our adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (FAS 123R) relating to the accounting for stock options and other share based payments, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate and changes in overall levels of pre tax earnings. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our operating results fluctuate and any failure to meet financial expectations may disappoint securities analysts or investors and result in a decline in our stock price. We have experienced and in the future may experience a shortfall in revenues or earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our total revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: customer confidence in the economy, evidenced, in part, by stock market levels; changes in the domestic and international economic, business and political conditions; 18 Table of Contents economic conditions within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; levels of product and price competition; market acceptance of and demand for our products; the length of our sales cycle and customer buying patterns; the size and timing of individual transactions; the timing of new product introductions and product enhancements; the mix of products sold; levels of international transactions; activities of and acquisitions by competitors; the timing of new hires and the allocation of our resources; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to develop and market new products and control costs; and changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high during any given period or may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly. In particular, we typically experience a decrease in the level of sales in the first calendar quarter as compared to the fourth quarter of the preceding year because of budgetary and capital equipment purchasing patterns in the life sciences research industry. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect they will fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, some of which are outside of our control. In addition, we manufacture our products based on forecasted orders rather than on outstanding orders. Accordingly, our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future sales, and we generally cannot quickly adjust operating expenses. For example, research and development and general and administrative expenses are not directly affected by variations in revenues. As a result, if sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust operating expenses in a sufficient timeframe to compensate for the shortfall, and our results of operations for that quarter may be seriously harmed. Likewise, our manufacturing processes may in certain instances create a risk of excess or inadequate inventory levels if orders do not match forecasts. Due to the preceding factors, we may experience a shortfall in revenues or earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Because our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to and reporting on these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 19 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile, which could cause stockholders to lose a substantial part of their investment in our stock. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have recently experienced volatility which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from $18.03 to $35.92. Our stock price could decline regardless of our actual operating performance, and stockholders could lose a substantial part of their investment as a result of industry or market based fluctuations. In the past, our stock has traded relatively thinly. If a more active public market for our stock is not sustained, it may be difficult for stockholders to resell shares of our common stock. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. The market price of our common stock will likely fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including the following: developments with or related to the transactions contemplated by the definitive agreement and plan of merger with MDS; domestic and international economic, business and political conditions; economic conditions within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; our failure to meet our performance estimates or the performance estimates of securities analysts; changes in financial estimates of our revenues and operating results by us or securities analysts; changes in buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; and the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts or acquisitions or publicity regarding actual or potential results or performance thereof. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition or merger in which we are not the surviving company or which results in changes in our management. For example, our certificate of incorporation gives our Board of Directors the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, as the terms of the preferred stock that might be issued could potentially prohibit our consummation of any merger, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, from consummating a merger or combination involving us. Further, in October 2001, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. We amended the terms of our stockholder rights plan in January 2007 in order to prevent the definitive agreement and plan of merger with MDS, the tender offer and the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement, from triggering the distribution and or exercise of the rights provided for under the stockholder rights plan. These provisions described above and our stockholder rights plan could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in our forward looking statements. This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that relate to future events or our future financial performance. When used in this report, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as believes, anticipates, plans, predicts, expects, estimates, intends, will, continue, may, potential, should and similar expressions. These statements are only predictions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in our forward looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth above and elsewhere in this report. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of these statements. We assume no duty to update any of the forward looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these statements to actual results. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. We lease two facilities in Sunnyvale, California, two in Union City, California, and one facility in Downingtown, Pennsylvania which include laboratory, manufacturing and administrative space. We also lease sales and service offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Australia, China and Brazil, and a manufacturing facility in China. We believe that our current facilities will be sufficient for our operations through at least 2007. These properties are described below: Location (1) Ownership Facilities Lease Expiration 1311 Orleans Drive Sunnyvale, CA 94089 Leased Approximately 60,000 square feet of office and laboratory space February 28, 2013 3280 Whipple Road Union City, CA 94587 Leased Approximately 76,214 square feet of office, laboratory and manufacturing space February 16, 2011 1312 Crossman Avenue Sunnyvale, CA 94089 Leased Approximately 54,500 square feet of office, laboratory and manufacturing space February 28, 2013 402 Boot Road Downingtown, PA 19335 Leased Approximately 27,900 square feet of office, laboratory and manufacturing space November 15, 2010 Nanhui, Shanghai, China Leased Approximately 19,000 square feet of manufacturing space December 31, 2010 Wokingham, England Leased Approximately 14,048 square feet of office space September 2, 2015 Tokyo, Japan Leased Approximately 4,300 square feet of office space June 30, 2007 Osaka, Japan Leased Approximately 3,700 square feet of office space March 31, 2007 Shanghai, China Leased Approximately 3,500 square feet of office space April 9, 2007 Munich, Germany Leaased Approximately 3,500 square feet of office space Month to month Melbourne, Australia Leased Approximately 2,200 square feet of office space May 31, 2007 Seoul, South Korea Leased Approximately 2,100 square feet of office space November 14, 2008 Beijing, China Leased Approximately 2,000 square feet of office space May 31, 2008 Sao Paulo, Brazil Leased Approximately 2,000 square feet of office space February, 2008 (1) In addition to the properties described above, we lease approximately 20,000 square feet of property in Union City, California, which we sublease to a third party. We do not use this property in our current operations and have not included it in the table above. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. None. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. None. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol MDCC. The prices per share reflected on the table below represent the range of high and low closing sales prices of our common stock on NASDAQ, for the period indicated. 2006 2005 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 33.30 $ 28.00 $ 21.32 $ 18.27 Second Quarter 35.92 27.79 22.01 18.16 Third Quarter 30.21 18.03 21.80 19.95 Fourth Quarter 22.82 18.15 28.93 19.45 Holders As of March 9, 2007, we had approximately 6,300 stockholders of record. In addition, we believe that a significant number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold their shares in street name. On March 9, 2007, the last sale price reported on NASDAQ for our common stock was $35.37 per share. Dividends Historically, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors will determine any future cash dividends. Performance Graph 22 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data. The following table sets forth our selected historical financial information, certain portions of which are based on, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited consolidated financial statements that are filed as a part of this report. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (1) $ 186,412 $ 181,951 $ 149,095 $ 116,008 $ 102,570 Cost of revenues (1) 70,065 70,267 56,840 43,683 40,974 Gross profit 116,347 111,684 92,255 72,325 61,596 Operating expenses: Research and development 23,362 25,281 22,038 18,679 18,002 Selling, general and administrative 71,826 59,885 52,469 43,457 35,435 Acquired in process research and development (2) 4,272 5,000 Restructuring and other charges (2) 331 1,427 1,157 Total operating expenses 99,791 86,593 80,664 62,136 53,437 Income from operations (2) 16,556 25,091 11,591 10,189 8,159 Gain on sale of equity securities 2,235 18,288 Translation gain on liquidation of subsidiaries (2) 1,413 Interest expense (85 ) (85 ) (187 ) Interest and other income (expense), net 524 (530 ) 319 872 1,562 Income before income taxes 20,643 24,476 30,011 11,061 9,721 Income tax provision 9,816 8,580 12,778 3,319 2,916 Net income $ 10,827 $ 15,896 $ 17,233 $ 7,742 $ 6,805 Basic net income per share $ 0.65 $ 0.95 $ 1.08 $ 0.51 $ 0.44 Diluted net income per share $ 0.64 $ 0.93 $ 1.04 $ 0.51 $ 0.44 Shares used in computing basic net income per share 16,676 16,783 16,028 15,067 15,348 Shares used in computing diluted net income per share 17,047 17,147 16,532 15,179 15,457 Consolidated Balance Sheets Data (in thousands): As of December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Cash and cash equivalents $ 22,824 $ 28,908 $ 30,175 $ 60,110 $ 53,783 Working capital 60,416 62,664 67,556 87,305 84,851 Total assets 266,778 257,416 255,229 166,913 162,901 Long term liabilities 9,630 5,479 6,776 Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) 17,850 7,023 (8,873 ) (26,106 ) (33,848 ) Total stockholders equity 217,986 213,073 210,620 145,538 142,804 (1) Revenues include increases of $0.7 million, $0.6 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million for the years ended 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to the reclassification of freight charges recovered from customers from Cost of Revenues to Revenues. Cost of Revenues has been increased accordingly, and there was no effect on gross profit, operating income or net income for any of the periods presented. (2) Our 2006 income from operations included a $4.3 million write off for the acquisition of in process research and development costs related to the acquisition of the LCM business from Arcturus, a $0.3 million restructuring charge related to the closure of our 23 Table of Contents Norway facility and a $1.4 million translation gain from the reversal of cumulative translation adjustments related to the liquidation of our Norway and Swiss subsidiaries. Our 2005 income from operations included a $1.4 million charge related to restructuring, associated with the termination of employees and the restructuring of an agreement. Our 2004 income from operations included a $5.0 million write off for the acquisition of in process research and development costs and a $1.2 million charge related to restructuring, associated with the acquisition of Axon. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview Except for the historical information contained herein, the following discussion contains forward looking statements. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward looking statements. Words such as believes, anticipates, plans, predicts, expects, estimates, intends, will, continue, may, potential, should and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward looking statements, including, among others, those discussed in this section as well as under Item 1A Risk Factors and Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the risks detailed from time to time in the Companys future SEC reports. On January 28, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger with MDS Inc. (MDS) and Monument Acquisition Corp. (Monument), a subsidiary of MDS, which contemplates the acquisition by MDS, through Monument, of all of our outstanding common stock in a two step transaction comprised of a cash tender offer for all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, followed by a merger of Monument with and into us. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Monument has commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock at a price of $35.50 per share, net to the holder thereof in cash. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, as soon as practicable after the consummation of the tender offer and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions set forth in the definitive agreement, Monument will merge with and into us and we will become an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MDS. Under the terms of the agreement, our stockholders will receive $35.50 per share in cash for each outstanding share of our common stock through a tender offer commenced by MDS and its indirect wholly owned subsidiary. The obligation of Monument to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the tender offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of closing conditions set forth in the definitive agreement, including among others, the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. The closing of the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement is subject to customary closing conditions, and, depending on the number of shares held by MDS and Monument after Monuments acceptance of the shares properly tendered in connection with the tender offer, approval of the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement by the holders of the outstanding shares of our common stock remaining after the completion of the tender offer may be required. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition by MDS Inc. We are a leading supplier of high performance bioanalytical measurement systems that accelerate and improve drug discovery and other life sciences research. Our systems and consumables enable pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to leverage advances in genomics, proteomics and parallel chemistry by facilitating the high throughput and cost effective identification and evaluation of drug candidates. Our solutions are based on our advanced core technologies that integrate our expertise in engineering, molecular and cell biology, and chemistry. We enable our customers to improve research productivity and effectiveness, which ultimately accelerates the complex process of discovering and developing new drugs. Our customers include leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as medical centers, universities, government research laboratories and other institutions throughout the world. The success of our business is impacted by research and development spending trends of these customers, which has been unpredictable over the last three years and remains unpredictable in the near term. We focus on generating revenue growth through the development of innovative products for these customers. In each of the last five years, our internal research and development efforts have enabled us to exceed our goal of generating over 50% of annual revenues from products introduced in the last three years. We divide our revenues into two product families based primarily on the customers to which they are sold. The drug discovery product family includes systems that integrate detection, liquid handling and automation, have price points in excess of $200,000, and are primarily sold to large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Product lines included in the drug discovery family are the FLIPR, Automated Electrophysiology, High Throughput Imaging and Analyst product families. The life sciences research product family consists of SpectraMax, GenePix, MetaMorph, Laser Capture Microdissection, Cellular Neurosciences, Liquid Handling and Threshold product lines. These single purpose instruments generally cost less than $60,000 and are sold throughout our entire customer base. We recognize revenue on the sale of these products, when collectibility is reasonably assured, at the time of shipment and transfer of title to customers and distributors. There are no significant customer acceptance requirements or post shipment obligations on our part. 24 Table of Contents We are deriving an increasing portion of our revenues from overseas operations. Sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 47% of total revenue in 2006, 44% in 2005, and 42% in 2004. We currently have sales and services offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, China, South Korea, Australia and Brazil. In addition, we employ sales and service personnel in Canada, France, the Benelux, Scandinavia and Spain. Additional international sales are conducted through distributors around the world. We anticipate that international sales will account for an increasing percentage of revenues in the future, and we expect to continue expanding our international operations in order to take advantage of increasing international market opportunities. Our international business exposes us to a number of risks that are described under Item 1A Risk Factors above, including: political, social and economic instability; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; the impact of business cycles and downturns in economies outside of the United States; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export our products or sell into particular jurisdictions; import and export license requirements and restrictions; difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and monitoring geographically disparate operations; difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees and customers due to distance, language and cultural barriers; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; difficulties in enforcing agreements through non U.S. legal systems; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting receivables; potentially adverse tax consequences; and foreign currency exchange fluctuations. On April 3, 2006, we acquired the LCM business from Arcturus. The total cost of the acquisition was $11.3 million, including cash paid of $10.3 million and transaction costs of $1.0 million. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of the LCM business have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. This strategic acquisition expanded our life sciences product portfolio to include complete systems and reagents for LCM. This acquisition did not cause us to create a new business segment. We allocated the preliminary purchase price based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. A valuation of the purchased intangible assets was undertaken by a third party valuation specialist to assist us in determining the estimated fair value of each identifiable asset and in allocating the purchase price among acquired assets, including the portion of the purchase price attributed to acquired in process research and development projects. The analysis resulted in $4.3 million of the purchase price being allocated to acquired in process research and development, using a discount rate of 25%, and charged to earnings. The in process research and development acquired from Arcturus consisted of product development initiatives. We estimated that the in process projects related to these products were approximately 81% complete. The value assigned to acquired in process research and development was determined by considering the importance of the project to the overall development plan, estimating the costs to develop the purchased in process research and development into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects when completed, and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. The revenue estimates used to value the acquired in process research and development were based on estimates of relevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in technology and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions by Arcturus and its competitors. The rates used to discount the net cash flows to their present value were based on Arcturus internal rate of return. The internal rate of return was adjusted to reflect the difficulties and uncertainties in completing each project and thereby achieving technological feasibility, the percentage of completion of each project, anticipated market acceptance and penetration, and market growth rates and risks related to the impact of potential changes in future target markets. 25 Table of Contents In March 2005, we completed the purchase of certain assets from Xsira relating to the Transfluor technology, a cell based fluorescent assay system for monitoring the function of G protein coupled receptors. We acquired $11.2 million of intangible assets, including $11.0 million of developed technology and tradenames valued at $0.2 million. We also acquired $0.1 million of other current assets consisting of receivables assigned to us in the purchase. On July 1, 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Axon. This acquisition expanded our product portfolio with systems for cellular neurosciences and genomics and combined complementary product lines in High Throughput Imaging and Automated Electrophysiology. This acquisition did not cause us to create a new business segment. The total cost of the acquisition was $139.3 million including cash and stock paid, options assumed, and direct transaction costs. As a result of the acquisition, we received $22.1 million in cash that had been on the balance sheet of Axon. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of Axon have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. We allocated the purchase price based on the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. A valuation of the purchased intangible assets was undertaken by a third party valuation specialist to assist us in determining the estimated fair value of each identifiable asset and in allocating the purchase price among acquired assets, including the portion of the purchase price attributed to acquired in process research and development projects. The analysis resulted in $5.0 million of the purchase price being allocated to acquired in process research and development and charged to earnings. Critical Accounting Policies Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, warranty obligations, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, equity investments and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition We apply the provisions of the following authoritative literature in the development of our revenue recognition policies: Emerging Issues Task Force, Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. Revenue arrangements with multiple elements are divided into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement have value to the customer on a stand alone basis, there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered elements and there are no rights of return or additional performance guarantees by us. Statement of Position 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition. Revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements is allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of the elements as determined by means of our quoting process and published price lists. Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition. Revenue is recognized when the following four criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the sellers price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. A majority of our revenue is derived from the sale of instruments to end users with a one year warranty. These arrangements include a single element (the instrument). Other single element arrangements include the sale of consumables, software, service, technology licenses, installation or training. Arrangements incorporating multiple elements may exist, either through one invoice or through separate invoices entered into with a single customer at or near the same time. These multiple element arrangements can include any combination of the previously described products or services. If there are multiple elements not delivered together, we recognize revenue on delivered elements when the fair value of any undelivered elements is known. 26 Table of Contents All single element and multiple element arrangements are evidenced by an invoice in response to a written purchase order or license agreement. Each element of an arrangement is invoiced at fair value as determined by means of our quoting process and published price lists. Standard end user terms include: risk of loss transferring to the purchaser at the time of shipment, net 30 day payment terms, no right of return or exchange, no right to upgrades and no acceptance provisions. We do not enter into arrangements that require performance in excess of our published specifications. Our revenue recognition criteria are as follows. In multiple element arrangements, each element is invoiced at fair value, and our revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element of the arrangement. Instruments, software and consumables We recognize revenue with respect to sales of instruments, software and consumables at the time that an instrument, software or consumable is shipped, in accordance with the shipping terms of the invoice. Under FOB Destination terms, we do not recognize revenue until the product arrives at the customer site. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of a valid purchase order and issuance by us of either a sales order confirmation or an invoice, confirmation of product shipment (or receipt, when FOB Destination terms apply), issuance of an invoice indicating the price and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. Service, installation and training Revenue from service events not covered by warranty or a service contract is recognized upon completion of the service. Service can be provided in the field or at our service depot. For a small number of products, we offer the option to purchase installation services. Installation is billed separately at the time of performance and is not part of a package price for instruments. We have established a fair value for installation services, as installation can be purchased with or without an instrument. Further, a third party or the customer can perform the installation. Training is billed separately at the time of performance and is not part of a package price for instruments. Training revenue is recognized upon completion of the training. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of a valid purchase order and issuance by us of either a sales order confirmation or an invoice, receipt of a customer acknowledgment that the service, installation or training has been completed, issuance of an invoice indicating the price and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. Service contracts Revenue from service contracts for our instruments, generally with a one year term, is recognized ratably over the period of coverage. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of a valid purchase order and issuance by us of either a sales order confirmation or an invoice, issuance of an invoice indicating the price and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. Technology license agreements Revenue from technology license agreements is recognized upon completion of our obligations to the licensee. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of an executed license agreement and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. We have no ongoing obligations under our current technology license agreements. Warranty Future warranty costs are estimated based on historical experience and provided for at the time of sale. Accounts Receivable We sell our products primarily to corporations, academic institutions, government entities and distributors within the drug discovery and life sciences research markets. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally do not require collateral. We provide reserves against trade receivables for estimated losses that may result from customers inability to pay. The amount of the reserve is determined by analyzing known uncollectible accounts, aged receivables, economic conditions in the customers country or industry, historical losses and customer credit worthiness. Amounts later determined and specifically identified to be uncollectible are charged or written off against the reserve. Estimated losses have historically been within our expectations. Inventories Inventories are stated on a first in, first out basis at the lower of cost or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we project, additional inventory write downs may be required. Such write downs have historically been within our expectations. 27 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Our business acquisitions have resulted in goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded value of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of December 31, 2006, our goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $107.3 million and $41.8 million, respectively. The determination of the value of such assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. Annually, and more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that impairment has occurred, we assess impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. We assess potential impairments to other intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our business, market condition and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Equity Investments We have invested in equity instruments of privately held companies for business and strategic purposes. As of December 31, 2006, we had an investment in one company with a carrying value of $1.2 million, which is included in intangible and other assets. This investment is accounted for under the cost method because our ownership is less than 20 percent of voting securities and we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over operations. We regularly review the assumptions underlying the operating performance and cash flow forecasts in assessing the estimated fair values of our non marketable investments. We monitor the preceding factors to identify events or circumstances that would cause us to test for other than temporary impairment and revise our assumptions for the estimated recovery of equity investments. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method whereby deferred tax asset or liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using current tax laws and rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized in the future. Significant estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations. We believe that our estimates are reasonable and that our reserves for income tax related uncertainties are adequate. At December 31, 2006, we had net deferred tax assets of $0.8 million. Realization of these assets is dependent on our ability to generate significant future taxable income. We believe that sufficient income will be earned in the future to realize these assets. We will evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assess the need for valuation allowances periodically. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects upon our effective tax rate in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, future levels of capital expenditures, international operations and our success in research and development and commercializing products. Stock Based Compensation Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FAS 123R using the modified prospective transition method and therefore have not restated prior periods. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for our employee stock option plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations, as permitted by FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended. Accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized for stock option grants with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant. As part of our adoption of FAS 123R, we reevaluated our assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted. As part of this assessment, we determined that a combination of implied and historical volatility is a better indicator of our expected volatility than historical volatility alone, which we previously used to value our options. Further, we examined the historical pattern of option exercises in order to determine if there were any discernable activity patterns based on certain employee populations. From this analysis, we identified two employee populations. We used the Black Scholes option pricing model to value the options for both of the employee populations. 28 Table of Contents In 2006, we recognized pre tax stock based compensation expense of $5.0 million. As of December 31, 2006, $7.5 million of total unrecognized stock based compensation expense related to stock options was expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.70 years. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of revenues: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 37.6 38.6 38.1 Gross profit 62.4 61.4 61.9 Operating expenses: Research and development 12.5 13.9 14.8 Selling, general and administrative 38.5 32.9 35.2 Acquired in process research and development 2.3 3.4 Restructuring and other charges 0.2 0.8 0.8 Total operating expenses 53.5 47.6 54.1 Income from operations 8.9 13.8 7.8 Gain on sale of equity securities 1.2 12.3 Translation gain on liquidation of subsidiaries 0.8 Interest expense (0.1 ) Interest and other income (expense), net 0.3 (0.3 ) 0.2 Income before income taxes 11.1 13.5 20.1 Income tax provision 5.3 4.7 8.6 Net income 5.8 % 8.7 % 11.6 % Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 Revenues Revenues in 2006 increased 2% to $186.4 million from $182.0 million in 2005. Drug discovery product family revenues in 2006 decreased by 7% compared to 2005, and represented 37% of total revenue. Life sciences research product family revenues in 2006 increased by 9% compared to 2005, and represented 63% of total revenue. The $4.4 million increase in revenues was primarily due to sales of products from our acquired LCM business, as well as growth in our SpectraMax and High Throughput Imaging product lines, offset by decreases across several product lines in drug discovery. Gross margin Gross margin increased to 62.4% in 2006 from 61.4% in 2005 primarily due to the addition of revenues from the LCM acquired products without significant additions to overhead. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses in 2006 decreased by 8% to $23.4 million from $25.3 million in 2005. This decrease was primarily due to decreases of $2.3 million in salaries, benefits, and associated costs due to reduced headcount and a reduction of $0.5 million in consulting fees related to our Automated Electrophysiology product line, partially offset by FAS 123R stock based compensation expense of $1.1 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 increased by 20% to $71.8 million from $59.9 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to $6.3 million of additional salaries and associated costs of increased headcount associated with international expansion and the LCM business acquisition, $3.5 million of FAS 123R stock based compensation expense, amortization of $0.7 million primarily for the intangible assets acquired from Arcturus, and $1.1 million for consulting costs related to FAS 123R implementation and other projects. 29 Table of Contents Acquired in process research and development In 2006, a $4.3 million write off of in process research and development occurred in conjunction with the acquisition of the LCM business from Arcturus. There was no similar write off in 2005. Restructuring and other charges In 2006, we recorded a restructuring charge of $0.3 million related to the liquidation and closing of a foreign subsidiary, primarily due to employee severance. This restructuring will not have a material impact on future results of operations nor cash flows. In 2005, we implemented a restructuring plan which included the termination of employees and the restructuring of a development and license agreement with a supplier. Costs for this plan associated with employee severance totaled $0.6 million. Costs for the restructuring of the agreement totaled $0.8 million, including the return of our equity investment in the supplier valued at $0.5 million and the transfer of $0.3 million of inventory. The total of $1.4 million was recognized as expense in restructuring and other charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Gain on sale of equity securities In the fourth quarter of 2004, we disposed of our investment in Serologicals Corporation (Serologicals) subsequent to its acquisition of Upstate Group, Inc. (Upstate). During 2006, we received additional cash consideration for our Upstate investment in the amount of $2.2 million from the escrow account established by Serologicals in connection with its acquisition of Upstate in 2004. There was no similar gain in 2005. Translation gain on liquidation of subsidiaries We recorded a gain in 2006 of $1.4 million from the reversal of cumulative translation adjustments upon the liquidation of two foreign subsidiaries. Interest expense Interest expense remained consistent in 2006 and 2005. Interest expense represents interest and fees on our revolving credit facility initially entered into to finance our acquisition of Axon. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net increased in 2006 to $0.5 million from $(0.5) million in 2005. This increase was due to an increase in interest income due to higher interest rates earned on our cash and cash equivalent portfolio and lower foreign currency transaction losses on short term intercompany receivables and payables. Income tax provision We recorded income tax provisions of $9.8 million (an effective tax rate of 48%) and $8.6 million (an effective tax rate of 35%) for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in our 2006 effective tax rate when compared to 2005 was primarily due to non deductible stock based compensation expense, the recording of a deferred tax liability in connection with the liquidation and closing of a foreign subsidiary and an adjustment to deferred tax assets associated with non deductible intangible assets. The effective tax rates for 2006 and 2005 were calculated on profit before tax. Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 Revenues Revenues in 2005 increased 22% to $182.0 million from $149.1 million in 2004. Drug discovery product family revenues in 2005 increased by 18% compared to 2004, and represented 40% of total revenue. Life sciences research product family revenues in 2005 increased by 25% compared to 2004, and represented 60% of total revenue. The $32.9 million increase in revenue was due to $22.2 million of sales of our acquired Axon product lines, including PatchXpress, ImageXpress, Cellular Neurosciences and GenePix, $7.7 million in growth in life sciences research products driven by our SpectraMax products including our SpectraMax M5, and increases in drug discovery of $3.0 million attributed to increases in the Automated Electrophysiology and FLIPR product families. 30 Table of Contents Gross margin Gross margin decreased to 61.4% in 2005 from 61.9% in 2004 due to a full year of revenue on lower margin products acquired from Axon in July 2004. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses in 2005 increased by 15% to $25.3 million from $22.0 million in 2004. This $3.3 million increase was the result of a full year of salary, benefits and other expenses of the acquired Axon research and development activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 increased by 14% to $59.9 million from $52.5 million in 2004. This increase was due to $3.1 million of domestic salary, benefits, facility and other expenses of the acquired Axon selling, general and administrative activities; $2.0 million of increased costs associated with our international operations, including European expansion and new offices in China and South Korea; and increased amortization of $1.8 million for the intangible assets acquired from Axon and Xsira. Acquired in process research and development In 2004, a $5.0 million write off of in process research and development occurred in conjunction with the acquisition of Axon. There was no similar write off in 2005. Restructuring and other charges In 2005, we implemented a restructuring plan which included the termination of employees and the restructuring of a development and license agreement with a supplier. Costs for this plan associated with employee severance totaled $0.6 million. Costs for the restructuring of the agreement totaled $0.8 million, including the return of our equity investment in the supplier valued at $0.5 million and the transfer of $0.3 million of inventory. The total of $1.4 million was recognized as expense in restructuring and other charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. In connection with the acquisition of Axon in 2004, we implemented an integration plan which included the termination of Axon and Molecular Devices employees, the relocation or transfer of employees to other sites and the closure of duplicate facilities. Termination costs related to Molecular Devices employees totaled $1.2 million and was expensed as restructuring and other charges. Gain on sale of equity securities As a result of the acquisition of Upstate by Serologicals in October 2004, we received cash and shares of common stock in Serologicals. Subsequently, we disposed of our entire equity interest in Serologicals. The net gain as a result of these transactions was $18.3 million, which was reported as gain on sale of equity securities in 2004. There was no similar gain in 2005. Interest expense Interest expense was $85,000 and $0.2 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Interest expense represents interest and fees on our revolving credit facility entered into to finance our acquisition of Axon. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net decreased in 2005 to $(0.5) million from $0.3 million in 2004. This decrease was due to foreign currency transaction losses on short term intercompany receivables and payables and a decrease in interest income due to lower cash and investment balances. Income tax provision We recorded income tax provisions of $8.6 million (an effective tax rate of 35%) and $12.8 million (an effective tax rate of 43%) for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decrease in our 2005 effective tax rate when compared to 2004 was primarily due to changes in estimates regarding certain current and prior years state income tax items and the absence of a non deductible acquired in process research and development expense which was recorded in 2004 in connection with our acquisition of Axon. The effective tax rates for 2005 and 2004 were calculated on profit before tax. 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2006 we had $22.8 million in cash and cash equivalents compared to $28.9 million and $30.2 million as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $21.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and $23.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The cash provided during 2006 was primarily the result of net income of $10.8 million plus net non cash charges of $14.4 million, less net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.5 million. The non cash charges included depreciation and amortization of $10.2 million, $3.5 million of FAS123R expense, net of tax benefits from stock based compensation, a $4.3 million charge for the write off of acquired in process research and development, the gain on the sale of equity securities of $2.2 million, and a $1.4 million translation gain on the liquidation of subsidiaries. Net cash used in investing activities was $15.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $13.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $16.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. We received $2.2 million of additional cash consideration for our Upstate investment from the escrow account established by Serologicals in connection with its acquisition of Upstate in 2004. We used $11.3 million of cash in 2006 to purchase the LCM business from Arcturus. In 2006 we also used $5.1 million to purchase capital equipment and $1.3 million to purchase intangible assets. In March 2005, we completed the purchase of certain assets from Xsira relating to the Transfluor technology and used $10.1 million of cash to acquire these assets. In 2005, we also used $2.9 million to purchase capital equipment. In 2004, we used $48.5 million to acquire Axon, net of cash received and $4.8 million to purchase capital equipment. We also received $28.3 million from the sale of equity securities and $9.9 million from the sales and maturity of investments. Net cash used in financing activities was $12.3 million in 2006, compared to $12.6 million and $27.5 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2006, we used $27.0 million to purchase 0.9 million shares of our common stock, partially offset by $13.1 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock for options exercised and $1.5 million of excess tax benefits related to stock based compensation. In 2005, we used $19.9 million to purchase 1.0 million shares of our common stock, offset by $7.3 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock for options exercised and employee stock purchases. The share repurchases occurred throughout 2006 and 2005, and accounted for approximately 5.6% and 5.8% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Approximately 0.2 million shares remained available for repurchase at December 31, 2006 under the stock repurchase program initially approved by our Board of Directors in August 2001. On July 1, 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Axon. In connection with the acquisition of Axon, we entered into a senior unsecured credit facility with Union Bank of California, N.A., which provides us with a revolving credit facility in the amount of up to $30.0 million. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries. All loans outstanding under the senior unsecured credit facility will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either the base rate plus 0.50% or the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.25%. The revolving credit facility may be drawn, paid and reborrowed at our option, and matures on July 1, 2007. We initially used $15.0 million of this credit facility to partially finance the cash portion of the merger consideration paid to Axon shareholders and certain optionholders. The $15.0 million drawdown was repaid and the revolving credit facility had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. We believe that our existing cash and anticipated cash flow from our operations will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate our anticipated cash flow from operations is subject to the risks and uncertainties discussed above under Item 1A Risk Factors including, in particular, variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our products and collect accounts receivable, the timing of customer orders and our dependence on orders that are shipped in the same quarter which gives us limited visibility of future product shipments, competition, risks associated with the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, supplier or manufacturing problems or delays, risks associated with past and potential future acquisitions, and risks associated with our need to develop new and enhanced products and market acceptance of such products. 32 Table of Contents Likewise, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of factors. We have based this estimate on our current plans which may change and assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the progress of our research and development; the number and scope of our research and development programs; our need to develop new and enhanced products; market acceptance and demand for our products; the costs that may be involved in enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; potential acquisition and technology licensing opportunities; the costs associated with repurchasing shares of our common stock; manufacturing capacity requirements; and the costs of expanding our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities both in the United States and abroad. We have generated sufficient cash flow to fund our capital requirements primarily through operating and financing activities over the last three years. However, we cannot assure you that we will not require additional financing in the future to support our existing operations or potential acquisition and technology licensing opportunities that may arise. Therefore, we may in the future seek to raise additional funds through bank facilities, debt or equity offerings or other sources of capital. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. Our cash and investments policy emphasizes liquidity and preservation of principal over other portfolio considerations. We select investments that maximize interest income to the extent possible given these two constraints. We satisfy liquidity requirements by investing excess cash in securities with different maturities to match projected cash needs and limit concentration of credit risk by diversifying our investments among a variety of high credit quality issuers. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from our operations will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations Our facilities are leased under noncancelable operating leases. In addition, we have contractual commitments for the purchase of products, components and services ending in 2007. As of December 31, 2006, the following is a summary of our contractual obligations (in millions): Payments Due by Period 2012 and Total 2007 2008 to 2009 2010 to 2011 thereafter Operating leases $ 31.2 $ 6.3 $ 11.2 $ 9.2 $ 4.5 Unconditional purchase obligations 14.1 14.1 Total contractual cash obligations $ 45.3 $ 20.4 $ 11.2 $ 9.2 $ 4.5 Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 (under the heading Recent Accounting Pronouncements) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. A discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments and further disclosures relating to financial investments is included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 33 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Benelux, Scandinavia, Canada, Switzerland, Japan, Australia and South Korea, where we sell many of our products directly in local currencies. All other foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and bear no exchange rate risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could make our products less competitive in overseas markets. A sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% movement in exchange rates applied to our projected foreign sales for the fiscal year 2007, indicated that such movement would not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. However, owing to the number of currencies involved, the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, and our constantly changing currency exposures, we cannot predict with certainty the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, but may do so in the future. Interest and Investment Income Our interest and investment income is subject to changes in the general level of interest rates, primarily U.S. interest rates. In this regard, changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash equivalents and short term investments. We invest our excess cash primarily in demand deposits with U.S. banks and money market accounts. We have not experienced any significant losses on the investments. A sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% movement in interest rates applied to our investment balances at December 31, 2006 indicated that such market movement would not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Actual gains or losses in the future may differ materially from this analysis, depending upon actual balances and changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movements. Debt and Interest Expense In connection with the acquisition of Axon in 2004, we entered into a senior unsecured credit facility with Union Bank of California, N.A., which provides us with a revolving credit facility in the amount of up to $30.0 million. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries. All loans outstanding under the senior unsecured credit facility will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either the base rate plus 0.50% or the London InterBank Offered Rate plus 1.25%. A sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% movement in interest rates applied to our debt balance at December 31, 2006 indicated that such market movement would not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, as there was no balance outstanding at year end. Actual gains or losses in the future may differ materially from this analysis, depending on the level of our outstanding debt and changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movements. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview Except for the historical information contained herein, the following discussion contains forward looking statements. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward looking statements. Words such as believes, anticipates, plans, predicts, expects, estimates, intends, will, continue, may, potential, should and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward looking statements, including, among others, those discussed in this section as well as under Item 1A Risk Factors and Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the risks detailed from time to time in the Companys future SEC reports. On January 28, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger with MDS Inc. (MDS) and Monument Acquisition Corp. (Monument), a subsidiary of MDS, which contemplates the acquisition by MDS, through Monument, of all of our outstanding common stock in a two step transaction comprised of a cash tender offer for all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, followed by a merger of Monument with and into us. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Monument has commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock at a price of $35.50 per share, net to the holder thereof in cash. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, as soon as practicable after the consummation of the tender offer and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions set forth in the definitive agreement, Monument will merge with and into us and we will become an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MDS. Under the terms of the agreement, our stockholders will receive $35.50 per share in cash for each outstanding share of our common stock through a tender offer commenced by MDS and its indirect wholly owned subsidiary. The obligation of Monument to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the tender offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of closing conditions set forth in the definitive agreement, including among others, the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. The closing of the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement is subject to customary closing conditions, and, depending on the number of shares held by MDS and Monument after Monuments acceptance of the shares properly tendered in connection with the tender offer, approval of the merger contemplated by the definitive agreement by the holders of the outstanding shares of our common stock remaining after the completion of the tender offer may be required. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition by MDS Inc. We are a leading supplier of high performance bioanalytical measurement systems that accelerate and improve drug discovery and other life sciences research. Our systems and consumables enable pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to leverage advances in genomics, proteomics and parallel chemistry by facilitating the high throughput and cost effective identification and evaluation of drug candidates. Our solutions are based on our advanced core technologies that integrate our expertise in engineering, molecular and cell biology, and chemistry. We enable our customers to improve research productivity and effectiveness, which ultimately accelerates the complex process of discovering and developing new drugs. Our customers include leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as medical centers, universities, government research laboratories and other institutions throughout the world. The success of our business is impacted by research and development spending trends of these customers, which has been unpredictable over the last three years and remains unpredictable in the near term. We focus on generating revenue growth through the development of innovative products for these customers. In each of the last five years, our internal research and development efforts have enabled us to exceed our goal of generating over 50% of annual revenues from products introduced in the last three years. We divide our revenues into two product families based primarily on the customers to which they are sold. The drug discovery product family includes systems that integrate detection, liquid handling and automation, have price points in excess of $200,000, and are primarily sold to large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Product lines included in the drug discovery family are the FLIPR, Automated Electrophysiology, High Throughput Imaging and Analyst product families. The life sciences research product family consists of SpectraMax, GenePix, MetaMorph, Laser Capture Microdissection, Cellular Neurosciences, Liquid Handling and Threshold product lines. These single purpose instruments generally cost less than $60,000 and are sold throughout our entire customer base. We recognize revenue on the sale of these products, when collectibility is reasonably assured, at the time of shipment and transfer of title to customers and distributors. There are no significant customer acceptance requirements or post shipment obligations on our part. 24 Table of Contents We are deriving an increasing portion of our revenues from overseas operations. Sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 47% of total revenue in 2006, 44% in 2005, and 42% in 2004. We currently have sales and services offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, China, South Korea, Australia and Brazil. In addition, we employ sales and service personnel in Canada, France, the Benelux, Scandinavia and Spain. Additional international sales are conducted through distributors around the world. We anticipate that international sales will account for an increasing percentage of revenues in the future, and we expect to continue expanding our international operations in order to take advantage of increasing international market opportunities. Our international business exposes us to a number of risks that are described under Item 1A Risk Factors above, including: political, social and economic instability; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; the impact of business cycles and downturns in economies outside of the United States; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export our products or sell into particular jurisdictions; import and export license requirements and restrictions; difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and monitoring geographically disparate operations; difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees and customers due to distance, language and cultural barriers; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; difficulties in enforcing agreements through non U.S. legal systems; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting receivables; potentially adverse tax consequences; and foreign currency exchange fluctuations. On April 3, 2006, we acquired the LCM business from Arcturus. The total cost of the acquisition was $11.3 million, including cash paid of $10.3 million and transaction costs of $1.0 million. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of the LCM business have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. This strategic acquisition expanded our life sciences product portfolio to include complete systems and reagents for LCM. This acquisition did not cause us to create a new business segment. We allocated the preliminary purchase price based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. A valuation of the purchased intangible assets was undertaken by a third party valuation specialist to assist us in determining the estimated fair value of each identifiable asset and in allocating the purchase price among acquired assets, including the portion of the purchase price attributed to acquired in process research and development projects. The analysis resulted in $4.3 million of the purchase price being allocated to acquired in process research and development, using a discount rate of 25%, and charged to earnings. The in process research and development acquired from Arcturus consisted of product development initiatives. We estimated that the in process projects related to these products were approximately 81% complete. The value assigned to acquired in process research and development was determined by considering the importance of the project to the overall development plan, estimating the costs to develop the purchased in process research and development into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects when completed, and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. The revenue estimates used to value the acquired in process research and development were based on estimates of relevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in technology and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions by Arcturus and its competitors. The rates used to discount the net cash flows to their present value were based on Arcturus internal rate of return. The internal rate of return was adjusted to reflect the difficulties and uncertainties in completing each project and thereby achieving technological feasibility, the percentage of completion of each project, anticipated market acceptance and penetration, and market growth rates and risks related to the impact of potential changes in future target markets. 25 Table of Contents In March 2005, we completed the purchase of certain assets from Xsira relating to the Transfluor technology, a cell based fluorescent assay system for monitoring the function of G protein coupled receptors. We acquired $11.2 million of intangible assets, including $11.0 million of developed technology and tradenames valued at $0.2 million. We also acquired $0.1 million of other current assets consisting of receivables assigned to us in the purchase. On July 1, 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Axon. This acquisition expanded our product portfolio with systems for cellular neurosciences and genomics and combined complementary product lines in High Throughput Imaging and Automated Electrophysiology. This acquisition did not cause us to create a new business segment. The total cost of the acquisition was $139.3 million including cash and stock paid, options assumed, and direct transaction costs. As a result of the acquisition, we received $22.1 million in cash that had been on the balance sheet of Axon. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of Axon have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. We allocated the purchase price based on the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. A valuation of the purchased intangible assets was undertaken by a third party valuation specialist to assist us in determining the estimated fair value of each identifiable asset and in allocating the purchase price among acquired assets, including the portion of the purchase price attributed to acquired in process research and development projects. The analysis resulted in $5.0 million of the purchase price being allocated to acquired in process research and development and charged to earnings. Critical Accounting Policies Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, warranty obligations, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, equity investments and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition We apply the provisions of the following authoritative literature in the development of our revenue recognition policies: Emerging Issues Task Force, Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. Revenue arrangements with multiple elements are divided into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement have value to the customer on a stand alone basis, there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered elements and there are no rights of return or additional performance guarantees by us. Statement of Position 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition. Revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements is allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of the elements as determined by means of our quoting process and published price lists. Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition. Revenue is recognized when the following four criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the sellers price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. A majority of our revenue is derived from the sale of instruments to end users with a one year warranty. These arrangements include a single element (the instrument). Other single element arrangements include the sale of consumables, software, service, technology licenses, installation or training. Arrangements incorporating multiple elements may exist, either through one invoice or through separate invoices entered into with a single customer at or near the same time. These multiple element arrangements can include any combination of the previously described products or services. If there are multiple elements not delivered together, we recognize revenue on delivered elements when the fair value of any undelivered elements is known. 26 Table of Contents All single element and multiple element arrangements are evidenced by an invoice in response to a written purchase order or license agreement. Each element of an arrangement is invoiced at fair value as determined by means of our quoting process and published price lists. Standard end user terms include: risk of loss transferring to the purchaser at the time of shipment, net 30 day payment terms, no right of return or exchange, no right to upgrades and no acceptance provisions. We do not enter into arrangements that require performance in excess of our published specifications. Our revenue recognition criteria are as follows. In multiple element arrangements, each element is invoiced at fair value, and our revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element of the arrangement. Instruments, software and consumables We recognize revenue with respect to sales of instruments, software and consumables at the time that an instrument, software or consumable is shipped, in accordance with the shipping terms of the invoice. Under FOB Destination terms, we do not recognize revenue until the product arrives at the customer site. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of a valid purchase order and issuance by us of either a sales order confirmation or an invoice, confirmation of product shipment (or receipt, when FOB Destination terms apply), issuance of an invoice indicating the price and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. Service, installation and training Revenue from service events not covered by warranty or a service contract is recognized upon completion of the service. Service can be provided in the field or at our service depot. For a small number of products, we offer the option to purchase installation services. Installation is billed separately at the time of performance and is not part of a package price for instruments. We have established a fair value for installation services, as installation can be purchased with or without an instrument. Further, a third party or the customer can perform the installation. Training is billed separately at the time of performance and is not part of a package price for instruments. Training revenue is recognized upon completion of the training. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of a valid purchase order and issuance by us of either a sales order confirmation or an invoice, receipt of a customer acknowledgment that the service, installation or training has been completed, issuance of an invoice indicating the price and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. Service contracts Revenue from service contracts for our instruments, generally with a one year term, is recognized ratably over the period of coverage. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of a valid purchase order and issuance by us of either a sales order confirmation or an invoice, issuance of an invoice indicating the price and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. Technology license agreements Revenue from technology license agreements is recognized upon completion of our obligations to the licensee. We determine that the SAB 104 criteria have been met through receipt of an executed license agreement and determination of credit worthiness or, in certain circumstances, receipt of prior payment. We have no ongoing obligations under our current technology license agreements. Warranty Future warranty costs are estimated based on historical experience and provided for at the time of sale. Accounts Receivable We sell our products primarily to corporations, academic institutions, government entities and distributors within the drug discovery and life sciences research markets. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally do not require collateral. We provide reserves against trade receivables for estimated losses that may result from customers inability to pay. The amount of the reserve is determined by analyzing known uncollectible accounts, aged receivables, economic conditions in the customers country or industry, historical losses and customer credit worthiness. Amounts later determined and specifically identified to be uncollectible are charged or written off against the reserve. Estimated losses have historically been within our expectations. Inventories Inventories are stated on a first in, first out basis at the lower of cost or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we project, additional inventory write downs may be required. Such write downs have historically been within our expectations. 27 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Our business acquisitions have resulted in goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded value of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of December 31, 2006, our goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $107.3 million and $41.8 million, respectively. The determination of the value of such assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. Annually, and more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that impairment has occurred, we assess impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. We assess potential impairments to other intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our business, market condition and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Equity Investments We have invested in equity instruments of privately held companies for business and strategic purposes. As of December 31, 2006, we had an investment in one company with a carrying value of $1.2 million, which is included in intangible and other assets. This investment is accounted for under the cost method because our ownership is less than 20 percent of voting securities and we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over operations. We regularly review the assumptions underlying the operating performance and cash flow forecasts in assessing the estimated fair values of our non marketable investments. We monitor the preceding factors to identify events or circumstances that would cause us to test for other than temporary impairment and revise our assumptions for the estimated recovery of equity investments. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method whereby deferred tax asset or liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using current tax laws and rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized in the future. Significant estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations. We believe that our estimates are reasonable and that our reserves for income tax related uncertainties are adequate. At December 31, 2006, we had net deferred tax assets of $0.8 million. Realization of these assets is dependent on our ability to generate significant future taxable income. We believe that sufficient income will be earned in the future to realize these assets. We will evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assess the need for valuation allowances periodically. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects upon our effective tax rate in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, future levels of capital expenditures, international operations and our success in research and development and commercializing products. Stock Based Compensation Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FAS 123R using the modified prospective transition method and therefore have not restated prior periods. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for our employee stock option plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations, as permitted by FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended. Accordingly, no compensation expense was recognized for stock option grants with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant. As part of our adoption of FAS 123R, we reevaluated our assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted. As part of this assessment, we determined that a combination of implied and historical volatility is a better indicator of our expected volatility than historical volatility alone, which we previously used to value our options. Further, we examined the historical pattern of option exercises in order to determine if there were any discernable activity patterns based on certain employee populations. From this analysis, we identified two employee populations. We used the Black Scholes option pricing model to value the options for both of the employee populations. 28 Table of Contents In 2006, we recognized pre tax stock based compensation expense of $5.0 million. As of December 31, 2006, $7.5 million of total unrecognized stock based compensation expense related to stock options was expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.70 years. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of revenues: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 37.6 38.6 38.1 Gross profit 62.4 61.4 61.9 Operating expenses: Research and development 12.5 13.9 14.8 Selling, general and administrative 38.5 32.9 35.2 Acquired in process research and development 2.3 3.4 Restructuring and other charges 0.2 0.8 0.8 Total operating expenses 53.5 47.6 54.1 Income from operations 8.9 13.8 7.8 Gain on sale of equity securities 1.2 12.3 Translation gain on liquidation of subsidiaries 0.8 Interest expense (0.1 ) Interest and other income (expense), net 0.3 (0.3 ) 0.2 Income before income taxes 11.1 13.5 20.1 Income tax provision 5.3 4.7 8.6 Net income 5.8 % 8.7 % 11.6 % Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 Revenues Revenues in 2006 increased 2% to $186.4 million from $182.0 million in 2005. Drug discovery product family revenues in 2006 decreased by 7% compared to 2005, and represented 37% of total revenue. Life sciences research product family revenues in 2006 increased by 9% compared to 2005, and represented 63% of total revenue. The $4.4 million increase in revenues was primarily due to sales of products from our acquired LCM business, as well as growth in our SpectraMax and High Throughput Imaging product lines, offset by decreases across several product lines in drug discovery. Gross margin Gross margin increased to 62.4% in 2006 from 61.4% in 2005 primarily due to the addition of revenues from the LCM acquired products without significant additions to overhead. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses in 2006 decreased by 8% to $23.4 million from $25.3 million in 2005. This decrease was primarily due to decreases of $2.3 million in salaries, benefits, and associated costs due to reduced headcount and a reduction of $0.5 million in consulting fees related to our Automated Electrophysiology product line, partially offset by FAS 123R stock based compensation expense of $1.1 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 increased by 20% to $71.8 million from $59.9 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to $6.3 million of additional salaries and associated costs of increased headcount associated with international expansion and the LCM business acquisition, $3.5 million of FAS 123R stock based compensation expense, amortization of $0.7 million primarily for the intangible assets acquired from Arcturus, and $1.1 million for consulting costs related to FAS 123R implementation and other projects. 29 Table of Contents Acquired in process research and development In 2006, a $4.3 million write off of in process research and development occurred in conjunction with the acquisition of the LCM business from Arcturus. There was no similar write off in 2005. Restructuring and other charges In 2006, we recorded a restructuring charge of $0.3 million related to the liquidation and closing of a foreign subsidiary, primarily due to employee severance. This restructuring will not have a material impact on future results of operations nor cash flows. In 2005, we implemented a restructuring plan which included the termination of employees and the restructuring of a development and license agreement with a supplier. Costs for this plan associated with employee severance totaled $0.6 million. Costs for the restructuring of the agreement totaled $0.8 million, including the return of our equity investment in the supplier valued at $0.5 million and the transfer of $0.3 million of inventory. The total of $1.4 million was recognized as expense in restructuring and other charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Gain on sale of equity securities In the fourth quarter of 2004, we disposed of our investment in Serologicals Corporation (Serologicals) subsequent to its acquisition of Upstate Group, Inc. (Upstate). During 2006, we received additional cash consideration for our Upstate investment in the amount of $2.2 million from the escrow account established by Serologicals in connection with its acquisition of Upstate in 2004. There was no similar gain in 2005. Translation gain on liquidation of subsidiaries We recorded a gain in 2006 of $1.4 million from the reversal of cumulative translation adjustments upon the liquidation of two foreign subsidiaries. Interest expense Interest expense remained consistent in 2006 and 2005. Interest expense represents interest and fees on our revolving credit facility initially entered into to finance our acquisition of Axon. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net increased in 2006 to $0.5 million from $(0.5) million in 2005. This increase was due to an increase in interest income due to higher interest rates earned on our cash and cash equivalent portfolio and lower foreign currency transaction losses on short term intercompany receivables and payables. Income tax provision We recorded income tax provisions of $9.8 million (an effective tax rate of 48%) and $8.6 million (an effective tax rate of 35%) for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in our 2006 effective tax rate when compared to 2005 was primarily due to non deductible stock based compensation expense, the recording of a deferred tax liability in connection with the liquidation and closing of a foreign subsidiary and an adjustment to deferred tax assets associated with non deductible intangible assets. The effective tax rates for 2006 and 2005 were calculated on profit before tax. Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 Revenues Revenues in 2005 increased 22% to $182.0 million from $149.1 million in 2004. Drug discovery product family revenues in 2005 increased by 18% compared to 2004, and represented 40% of total revenue. Life sciences research product family revenues in 2005 increased by 25% compared to 2004, and represented 60% of total revenue. The $32.9 million increase in revenue was due to $22.2 million of sales of our acquired Axon product lines, including PatchXpress, ImageXpress, Cellular Neurosciences and GenePix, $7.7 million in growth in life sciences research products driven by our SpectraMax products including our SpectraMax M5, and increases in drug discovery of $3.0 million attributed to increases in the Automated Electrophysiology and FLIPR product families. 30 Table of Contents Gross margin Gross margin decreased to 61.4% in 2005 from 61.9% in 2004 due to a full year of revenue on lower margin products acquired from Axon in July 2004. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses in 2005 increased by 15% to $25.3 million from $22.0 million in 2004. This $3.3 million increase was the result of a full year of salary, benefits and other expenses of the acquired Axon research and development activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 increased by 14% to $59.9 million from $52.5 million in 2004. This increase was due to $3.1 million of domestic salary, benefits, facility and other expenses of the acquired Axon selling, general and administrative activities; $2.0 million of increased costs associated with our international operations, including European expansion and new offices in China and South Korea; and increased amortization of $1.8 million for the intangible assets acquired from Axon and Xsira. Acquired in process research and development In 2004, a $5.0 million write off of in process research and development occurred in conjunction with the acquisition of Axon. There was no similar write off in 2005. Restructuring and other charges In 2005, we implemented a restructuring plan which included the termination of employees and the restructuring of a development and license agreement with a supplier. Costs for this plan associated with employee severance totaled $0.6 million. Costs for the restructuring of the agreement totaled $0.8 million, including the return of our equity investment in the supplier valued at $0.5 million and the transfer of $0.3 million of inventory. The total of $1.4 million was recognized as expense in restructuring and other charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. In connection with the acquisition of Axon in 2004, we implemented an integration plan which included the termination of Axon and Molecular Devices employees, the relocation or transfer of employees to other sites and the closure of duplicate facilities. Termination costs related to Molecular Devices employees totaled $1.2 million and was expensed as restructuring and other charges. Gain on sale of equity securities As a result of the acquisition of Upstate by Serologicals in October 2004, we received cash and shares of common stock in Serologicals. Subsequently, we disposed of our entire equity interest in Serologicals. The net gain as a result of these transactions was $18.3 million, which was reported as gain on sale of equity securities in 2004. There was no similar gain in 2005. Interest expense Interest expense was $85,000 and $0.2 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Interest expense represents interest and fees on our revolving credit facility entered into to finance our acquisition of Axon. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net decreased in 2005 to $(0.5) million from $0.3 million in 2004. This decrease was due to foreign currency transaction losses on short term intercompany receivables and payables and a decrease in interest income due to lower cash and investment balances. Income tax provision We recorded income tax provisions of $8.6 million (an effective tax rate of 35%) and $12.8 million (an effective tax rate of 43%) for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decrease in our 2005 effective tax rate when compared to 2004 was primarily due to changes in estimates regarding certain current and prior years state income tax items and the absence of a non deductible acquired in process research and development expense which was recorded in 2004 in connection with our acquisition of Axon. The effective tax rates for 2005 and 2004 were calculated on profit before tax. 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2006 we had $22.8 million in cash and cash equivalents compared to $28.9 million and $30.2 million as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $21.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and $23.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The cash provided during 2006 was primarily the result of net income of $10.8 million plus net non cash charges of $14.4 million, less net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.5 million. The non cash charges included depreciation and amortization of $10.2 million, $3.5 million of FAS123R expense, net of tax benefits from stock based compensation, a $4.3 million charge for the write off of acquired in process research and development, the gain on the sale of equity securities of $2.2 million, and a $1.4 million translation gain on the liquidation of subsidiaries. Net cash used in investing activities was $15.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $13.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $16.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. We received $2.2 million of additional cash consideration for our Upstate investment from the escrow account established by Serologicals in connection with its acquisition of Upstate in 2004. We used $11.3 million of cash in 2006 to purchase the LCM business from Arcturus. In 2006 we also used $5.1 million to purchase capital equipment and $1.3 million to purchase intangible assets. In March 2005, we completed the purchase of certain assets from Xsira relating to the Transfluor technology and used $10.1 million of cash to acquire these assets. In 2005, we also used $2.9 million to purchase capital equipment. In 2004, we used $48.5 million to acquire Axon, net of cash received and $4.8 million to purchase capital equipment. We also received $28.3 million from the sale of equity securities and $9.9 million from the sales and maturity of investments. Net cash used in financing activities was $12.3 million in 2006, compared to $12.6 million and $27.5 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2006, we used $27.0 million to purchase 0.9 million shares of our common stock, partially offset by $13.1 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock for options exercised and $1.5 million of excess tax benefits related to stock based compensation. In 2005, we used $19.9 million to purchase 1.0 million shares of our common stock, offset by $7.3 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock for options exercised and employee stock purchases. The share repurchases occurred throughout 2006 and 2005, and accounted for approximately 5.6% and 5.8% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Approximately 0.2 million shares remained available for repurchase at December 31, 2006 under the stock repurchase program initially approved by our Board of Directors in August 2001. On July 1, 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Axon. In connection with the acquisition of Axon, we entered into a senior unsecured credit facility with Union Bank of California, N.A., which provides us with a revolving credit facility in the amount of up to $30.0 million. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries. All loans outstanding under the senior unsecured credit facility will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either the base rate plus 0.50% or the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.25%. The revolving credit facility may be drawn, paid and reborrowed at our option, and matures on July 1, 2007. We initially used $15.0 million of this credit facility to partially finance the cash portion of the merger consideration paid to Axon shareholders and certain optionholders. The $15.0 million drawdown was repaid and the revolving credit facility had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. We believe that our existing cash and anticipated cash flow from our operations will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate our anticipated cash flow from operations is subject to the risks and uncertainties discussed above under Item 1A Risk Factors including, in particular, variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our products and collect accounts receivable, the timing of customer orders and our dependence on orders that are shipped in the same quarter which gives us limited visibility of future product shipments, competition, risks associated with the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, supplier or manufacturing problems or delays, risks associated with past and potential future acquisitions, and risks associated with our need to develop new and enhanced products and market acceptance of such products. 32 Table of Contents Likewise, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of factors. We have based this estimate on our current plans which may change and assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the progress of our research and development; the number and scope of our research and development programs; our need to develop new and enhanced products; market acceptance and demand for our products; the costs that may be involved in enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; potential acquisition and technology licensing opportunities; the costs associated with repurchasing shares of our common stock; manufacturing capacity requirements; and the costs of expanding our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities both in the United States and abroad. We have generated sufficient cash flow to fund our capital requirements primarily through operating and financing activities over the last three years. However, we cannot assure you that we will not require additional financing in the future to support our existing operations or potential acquisition and technology licensing opportunities that may arise. Therefore, we may in the future seek to raise additional funds through bank facilities, debt or equity offerings or other sources of capital. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. Our cash and investments policy emphasizes liquidity and preservation of principal over other portfolio considerations. We select investments that maximize interest income to the extent possible given these two constraints. We satisfy liquidity requirements by investing excess cash in securities with different maturities to match projected cash needs and limit concentration of credit risk by diversifying our investments among a variety of high credit quality issuers. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from our operations will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations Our facilities are leased under noncancelable operating leases. In addition, we have contractual commitments for the purchase of products, components and services ending in 2007. As of December 31, 2006, the following is a summary of our contractual obligations (in millions): Payments Due by Period 2012 and Total 2007 2008 to 2009 2010 to 2011 thereafter Operating leases $ 31.2 $ 6.3 $ 11.2 $ 9.2 $ 4.5 Unconditional purchase obligations 14.1 14.1 Total contractual cash obligations $ 45.3 $ 20.4 $ 11.2 $ 9.2 $ 4.5 Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 (under the heading Recent Accounting Pronouncements) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. A discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments and further disclosures relating to financial investments is included in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 33 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Benelux, Scandinavia, Canada, Switzerland, Japan, Australia and South Korea, where we sell many of our products directly in local currencies. All other foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and bear no exchange rate risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could make our products less competitive in overseas markets. A sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% movement in exchange rates applied to our projected foreign sales for the fiscal year 2007, indicated that such movement would not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. However, owing to the number of currencies involved, the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, and our constantly changing currency exposures, we cannot predict with certainty the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, but may do so in the future. Interest and Investment Income Our interest and investment income is subject to changes in the general level of interest rates, primarily U.S. interest rates. In this regard, changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash equivalents and short term investments. We invest our excess cash primarily in demand deposits with U.S. banks and money market accounts. We have not experienced any significant losses on the investments. A sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% movement in interest rates applied to our investment balances at December 31, 2006 indicated that such market movement would not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Actual gains or losses in the future may differ materially from this analysis, depending upon actual balances and changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movements. Debt and Interest Expense In connection with the acquisition of Axon in 2004, we entered into a senior unsecured credit facility with Union Bank of California, N.A., which provides us with a revolving credit facility in the amount of up to $30.0 million. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries. All loans outstanding under the senior unsecured credit facility will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either the base rate plus 0.50% or the London InterBank Offered Rate plus 1.25%. A sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% movement in interest rates applied to our debt balance at December 31, 2006 indicated that such market movement would not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, as there was no balance outstanding at year end. Actual gains or losses in the future may differ materially from this analysis, depending on the level of our outstanding debt and changes in the timing and amount of interest rate movements. 
</SECTION>
