<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: ITLA CAPITAL CORP
CIK: 0001000234
SIC: 6036
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Risk Elements. Funding Sources The primary source of funding for our lending operations and investments are deposits. Our deposits are federally insured by the FDIC to the maximum extent permitted by law. Approximately 87.5% of our deposits are term deposits that pay fixed rates of interest for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, 10.3% of our deposits are adjustable rate passbook accounts and adjustable rate money market accounts with limited checking features, and 2.2% are customer demand deposit accounts. Our retail checking account balance was $47.7 million at December 31, 2006. We generally accumulate deposits by relying on renewals of term accounts by existing depositors, participating in deposit rate surveys which promote the rates offered by us on our deposit products, and periodically advertising in various local market newspapers and other media. Management believes that our deposits are a reliable funding source and that the cost of funds resulting from our deposit gathering strategy is comparable to those of other banks pursuing a similar strategy. However, because we compete for deposits primarily on the basis of rates, we could experience difficulties in attracting deposits if we could not continue to offer deposit rates at levels above those of other financial institutions. Management also believes that any efforts to significantly increase the size of our deposit base may require greater marketing efforts and or increases in deposit rates. At December 31, 2006, we had $332.8 million of brokered deposits. For information concerning overall deposits outstanding during the periods indicated and the rates paid thereon, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Net Interest Income. The Bank also uses advances from the FHLB of San Francisco and borrowings from other unaffiliated financial institutions as funding sources. FHLB advances are collateralized by pledges of qualifying cash equivalents, investment securities, mortgage backed securities and loans. At December 31, 2006, FHLB advances outstanding totaled $980.0 million, and the remaining available borrowing capacity, based on the loans and securities pledged as collateral, totaled $310.3 million, net of the $12.2 million of additional FHLB Stock that we would be required to purchase to support the additional borrowings. Additionally, the Bank has a $30.0 million repurchase agreement borrowing from an unaffiliated financial institution that is secured by mortgage backed securities. The Bank also has uncommitted, unsecured lines of credit with other banks renewable daily in the amount of $128.0 million and ITLA Capital has a $25.0 million revolving credit facility with an unaffiliated financial institution. This revolving credit facility matures on April 30, 2007, which we intend on renewing upon maturity. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 7, 8, and 9. 7 Table of Contents Regulation As a bank holding company, ITLA Capital is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve Board or FRB). As a California chartered commercial bank, the Bank is regulated by the California Department of Financial Institutions (the DFI) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC). Holding Company Regulation Bank holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation by the Federal Reserve Board under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and the regulations of the Federal Reserve Board. As a bank holding company, ITLA Capital is required to file reports with the Federal Reserve Board and provide such additional information as the Federal Reserve Board may require. ITLA Capital and its non bank subsidiaries are also subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has extensive enforcement authority over bank holding companies, including, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to require that a bank holding company divest subsidiaries, including its bank subsidiaries. In general, enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of law and regulation as well as unsafe or unsound practices. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company must serve as a source of strength for its subsidiary banks. Under this policy, the Federal Reserve Board may require, and has required in the past, bank holding companies to contribute additional capital to undercapitalized subsidiary banks. Under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, a bank holding company must obtain Federal Reserve Board approval before, among other matters: acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after the acquisition, it would own or control more than 5% of these shares (unless it already owns or controls a majority of these shares); acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company; or merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. This statute also prohibits a bank holding company, with certain exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company which is not a bank or bank holding company, or from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or providing services for its subsidiaries. The principal exceptions to these prohibitions involve certain non bank activities which have been identified as activities closely related to the business of banking or managing or controlling banks. Companies that qualify as financial holding companies may also engage in securities, insurance and merchant banking activities. Dividends. The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses the Federal Reserve Boards view that a bank holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that its net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the bank holding companys capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Furthermore, under its source of strength doctrine, the Federal Reserve Board expects a bank holding company to serve as a source of financial strength for its bank subsidiaries, which could limit the ability of a holding company to pay dividends if a bank subsidiary did not have sufficient capital. Repurchase or Redemption of Equity Securities. A bank holding company is required to give the Federal Reserve Board prior written notice of any purchase or redemption of its outstanding equity securities if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the net consideration paid for all such purchases or redemptions during the preceding 12 months, is equal to 10% or more of its consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve Board may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law, regulation, Federal Reserve Board order, or any condition imposed by, or written agreement with, the Federal Reserve Board. This notification requirement does not apply to any company that meets the well capitalized standard for bank holding companies, has a safety and soundness examination rating of at least a 2 and is not subject to any unresolved supervisory issues. 8 Table of Contents Regulatory Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve has established risk based measures and a leverage measure of capital adequacy for bank holding companies. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items, such as letters of credit and unfunded loan commitments, are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate risk weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. The minimum ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8.0%. Total capital consists of two components, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital generally consists of common shareholders equity, including retained earnings, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, certain trust preferred securities and minority interest in equity accounts of fully consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets. Tier 1 capital must equal at least 4.0% of risk weighted assets. Tier 2 capital generally consists of subordinated debt and other hybrid capital instruments, other preferred stock, a limited amount of loan loss reserves and a limited amount of unrealized holding gains on equity securities. The total amount of Tier 2 capital is limited to 100% of Tier 1 capital. At December 31, 2006, our ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets was 11.9% and our ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets was 10.2%. In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets, of 3.0% for certain bank holding companies that meet specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating and implementing the Federal Reserves risk based capital measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4.0%. At December 31, 2006, ITLA Capitals required leverage ratio was 4.0% and its actual leverage ratio was 9.0%. ITLA Capital currently is deemed well capitalized under the Federal Reserve Board capital requirements. To be well capitalized, a bank holding company must have a ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets of at least 10% and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets of at least 6.0%. Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank or bank holding company to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting brokered deposits, and other restrictions on its business. As described below, significant additional restrictions can be imposed on FDIC insured depository institutions that fail to meet applicable capital requirements. Bank Regulation California Law The regulations of the DFI govern most aspects of the Banks businesses and operations, including, but not limited to, the scope of its business, investments, the nature and amount of any collateral for loans, the issuance of securities, the payment of dividends, bank expansion and bank activities. The DFIs supervision of the Bank includes comprehensive reviews of all aspects of the Banks business and condition, and the DFI possesses broad remedial enforcement authority to influence the Banks operations, both formally and informally. Bank Regulation Federal Law The FDIC, in addition to the DFI, broadly regulates the Bank. As an insurer of deposits, the FDIC issues regulations, conducts examinations, requires the filing of reports, and generally supervises the operations of institutions to which it provides deposit insurance. The FDIC is also the federal agency charged with regulating state chartered banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System, such as the Bank. Insured depository institutions, and their institution affiliated parties, may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the FDIC and the DFI for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses or for violations of any law, rule, regulation or any condition imposed in writing by the agency or any written agreement with the agency. Management is not aware of any pending or threatened enforcement actions against the Bank. 9 Table of Contents Regulatory Capital Requirements. Federally insured, state chartered banks such as the Bank are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital as specified in the FDICs capital maintenance regulations. The FDIC also is authorized to impose capital requirements in excess of these standards on individual banks on a case by case basis. The Bank is required to comply with three separate minimum capital requirements: a tier 1 capital ratio and two risk based capital requirements. Tier 1 capital generally includes common shareholders equity, including retained earnings, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and any related surplus, and minority interests in the equity accounts of fully consolidated subsidiaries, less intangible assets, other than properly valued purchased mortgage servicing rights up to certain specified limits and less net deferred tax assets in excess of certain specified limits. Tier 1 Capital Ratio. FDIC regulations establish a minimum 3.0% ratio of tier 1 capital to total average assets for the most highly rated state chartered, FDIC supervised banks. All other FDIC supervised banks must maintain at least a 4.0% tier 1 capital ratio. At December 31, 2006, the Banks required minimum tier 1 capital ratio was 4.0% and its actual tier 1 capital ratio was 9.1%. Risk Based Capital Requirements. The risk based capital requirements generally require the Bank to maintain a minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets of at least 4.0% and a minimum ratio of total risk based capital to risk weighted assets of at least 8.0%. To calculate the amount of capital required, assets are placed in one of four categories and given a percentage weight (0%, 20%, 50% or 100%) based on the relative risk of the category. For example, United States Treasury Bills and Ginnie Mae securities are placed in the 0% risk category. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities are placed in the 20% risk category, loans secured by one to four family residential properties and certain privately issued mortgage backed securities are generally placed in the 50% risk category, and commercial and consumer loans and other assets are generally placed in the 100% risk category. In addition, certain off balance sheet items are converted to balance sheet credit equivalent amounts and each amount is then assigned to one of the four categories. For purposes of the risk based capital requirements, total capital means tier 1 capital plus supplementary or tier 2 capital, so long as the amount of supplementary or tier 2 capital that is used to satisfy the requirement does not exceed the amount of tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital includes cumulative and certain other perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible subordinated debt and perpetual subordinated debt, mandatory redeemable preferred stock, intermediate term preferred stock, mandatory convertible subordinated debt and subordinated debt, the allowance for loan losses up to a maximum of 1.25% of risk weighted assets and a limited amount of unrealized holding gains on securities. At December 31, 2006 the Banks required minimum tier 1 risk based and total capital ratios were 4.0% and 8.0% respectively and its actual was 10.3% and 11.5%, respectively. The federal banking agencies have adopted regulations specifying that the agencies will include, in their evaluation of a banks capital adequacy, an assessment of the exposure to declines in the economic value of the banks capital due to changes in interest rates. The FDIC and the other federal banking agencies have also promulgated final amendments to their respective risk based capital requirements which identify concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from nontraditional activities, and the management of such risk, as important factors to consider in assessing an institutions overall capital adequacy. The FDIC may require higher minimum capital ratios based on certain circumstances, including where the institution has significant risks from concentration of credit or certain risks arising from nontraditional activities. Prompt Corrective Action Requirements. The FDIC has implemented a system requiring regulatory sanctions against state chartered banks that are not adequately capitalized, with the sanctions growing more severe the lower the institutions capital. The FDIC has established specific capital ratios for five separate capital categories: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. An institution is treated as well capitalized if its total risk based capital ratio is 10.0% or more, its tier 1 risk based ratio is 6.0% or more, its tier 1 capital ratio is 5.0% or greater, and it is not subject to any order or directive by the FDIC to meet a specific capital level. The Bank exceeded these requirements at December 31, 2006. The FDIC is authorized and, under certain circumstances, required to take certain actions against institutions that are not at least adequately capitalized. Any such institution must submit a capital restoration plan and, until such plan is approved by the FDIC, may not increase its assets, acquire another institution, establish a branch or engage in any new activities, and generally may not make capital distributions. The capital restoration plan must include a limited guaranty by the institutions holding company. In addition, the FDIC must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution, with certain limited exceptions, within 90 days after it becomes critically undercapitalized. 10 Table of Contents The FDIC is also generally authorized to reclassify an institution into a lower capital category and impose the restrictions applicable to such category if the institution is engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Requirements. Federal banking agencies are required to evaluate the record of financial institutions in meeting the credit needs of their local communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. In its most recent examination, the FDIC rated the Bank satisfactory in complying with its Community Reinvestment Act obligations. The Bank is also subject to certain fair lending (nondiscrimination) requirements. In addition to substantial penalties and corrective measures that may be required for a violation of certain fair lending laws, the federal banking agencies take compliance with such laws into account when regulating and supervising other activities such as mergers and acquisitions. Fiscal and Monetary Policies. Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government securities; (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Federal Reserve Board regulations require the Bank to maintain non interest earning reserves against the Banks transaction deposit accounts. Currently, the first $8.5 million of otherwise reservable balances are exempt from the reserve requirement, a 3% reserve requirement applies to balances over $8.5 million up to $45.8 million and a 10% reserve requirement applies to balances over $45.8 million. The Bank was in compliance with these requirements as of December 31, 2006. Privacy Provisions. Banking regulators, as required under the Gramm Leach Bliley Act (GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules generally require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside vendors. The State of California has adopted The California Financial Information Privacy Act (CFPA), which took effect in 2004. The CFPA requires a financial institution to provide specific information to a consumer related to the sharing of that consumers nonpublic personal information. A consumer may direct the financial institution not to share his or her nonpublic personal information with affiliated or nonaffiliated companies with which a financial institution has contracted to provide financial products and services, and requires that permission from the consumer be obtained by a financial institution prior to sharing such information. These provisions are more restrictive than the privacy provisions of the GLB Act. In December 2003, the U.S. Congress adopted, and President Bush signed, the Fair and Accurate Transactions Act (the FACT Act). In 2005, federal courts determined that the provisions of the CFPA limiting shared information with affiliates are preempted by provisions of the GLB Act, the FACT Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act. International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti Terrorism Act of 2001. President Bush signed the USA Patriot Act of 2001 into law in October 2001. This act contains the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti Terrorism Act of 2001 (the IMLAFA). The IMLAFA substantially broadened existing anti money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States, imposes new compliance and due diligence obligations, creates new crimes and penalties, compels the production of documents located both inside and outside the United States, and clarifies the safe harbor from civil liability to customers. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued a number of regulations implementing the USA Patriot Act that apply certain of its requirements to financial institutions such as the Bank. The regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The increased obligations of financial institutions, including us, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, requires the implementation and maintenance of internal procedures, practices and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs and may subject us to liability. Enforcement and compliance related activity by government agencies has increased. Money laundering and anti terrorism compliance are among the areas receiving a high level of focus in the present environment. 11 Table of Contents Future Legislation. Various legislation, including proposals to change substantially the financial institution regulatory system, is from time to time introduced in Congress. This legislation may change banking statutes and our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, this legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 263 employees. Management believes that its relations with employees are satisfactory. We are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements. Segment Reporting Financial and other information regarding our operating segments is contained in Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Internet Website We maintain a website with the address www.itlacapital.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Other than an investors own Internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate seventeen times, from 1.00% to 5.25%. While these short term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, longer term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer term loans) have not. This flattening of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date. If short term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long term loans and investments, we would experience further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. 12 Table of Contents An increase in loan prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. Prepayment rates are affected by consumer behavior, conditions in the real estate and other financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on our fixed rate and adjustable rate mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities. Changes in prepayment rates are therefore difficult for us to predict. We recognize our deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans by adjusting our interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed accelerates. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We may not be able to reinvest prepayments on loans or mortgage backed securities at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in periods of declining interest rates. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the economy may also increase our risk for credit losses. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; general portfolio trends relative to asset and portfolio size; potential credit and geographic concentrations; delinquency trends and nonaccrual levels; historical loss and recovery experience and risks associated with changes in economic, social and business conditions; the amount and quality of the collateral; the views of our regulators; and the underwriting standards in effect when the loan is made. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. We may experience losses in our loan portfolio or perceive adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, which would also reduce our earnings. In addition, the Banks regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, may require us to make additional provisions for loan losses. 13 Table of Contents Our income producing property loans involve higher principal amounts and expose us to a greater risk of loss than one to four family residential loans. At December 31, 2006, we had $2.5 billion of loans secured by commercial and multi family real estate, representing 85.8% of our total real estate loans and 82.5% of our gross loan portfolio. The income generated from the operation of the property securing the loan is generally considered by us to be the principal source of repayment on this type of loan. A significant portion of the income producing property lending in which we engage typically involves larger loans to a single borrower and is generally viewed as exposing the lender to a greater risk of loss than one four family residential lending because these loans generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrowers ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Income producing property values are also generally subject to greater volatility than residential property values. The liquidation values of income producing properties may be adversely affected by risks generally incident to interests in real property, such as: changes or continued weakness in general or local economic conditions; changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; declines in real estate values; declines in rental, room or occupancy rates in hotels, apartment complexes or commercial properties; increases in other operating expenses (including energy costs); the availability of refinancing at lower interest rates or better loan terms; changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including rent control ordinances, environmental legislation and taxation; increases in interest rates, real estate and personal property tax rates, and other factors beyond the control of the borrower or the lender. We generally originate and acquire income producing property loans primarily to be held in our portfolio to maturity. Because the resale market for this type of loan is less liquid than the well established secondary market for residential loans, should we decide to sell our income producing property loans, we may incur losses on any sale. The unseasoned nature of many of the loans we originated as part of our small balance multi family real estate loan platform, along with our limited experience in originating loans nationwide, may lead to additional provisions for loan losses or charge offs, which would hurt our profits. The national expansion of our real estate loan platform and, in particular, our small balance multi family real estate loans has led to an increase in the number of these types of loans in our portfolio. Many of these loans are unseasoned and have not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. We have limited experience in originating loans outside the State of California and as a result do not have a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectibility. At December 31, 2006, $1.3 billion, or 45.6%, of our real estate secured loans were secured by properties located outside the state of California. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this portion of our real estate loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We originate construction loans for income producing properties, as well as for single family home construction. At December 31, 2006, construction loans totaled $347.8 million, or 11.7% of gross loans receivable. Construction lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. There are also risks associated with the timely completion of the construction activities for their allotted costs, as a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns, and the time needed to stabilize income producing properties or to sell residential tract developments. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan to value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. 14 Table of Contents Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Repayment of our entertainment finance loans is primarily dependent on revenues from distribution contracts. Through ICBEF, a division of the Bank, we originate entertainment finance loans to independent producers of film and television on a senior secured basis. Although these loans are typically collateralized by a mortgage of copyright, security agreements and assigned sales contracts, the primary source of repayment is the revenue received by the borrower from the licensing of distribution rights. For this reason, our credit decisions are based in part on the creditworthiness and reputation of the producer, sales agent and distributors who have contracted to distribute the films. In many instances, the distribution contracts provide for multiple payments payable at certain milestones (such as execution of contract, commencement of principal photography or completion of principal photography). The maturity date of the loan is generally six to nine months after completion of the production. To the extent a distributor fails to make payment upon completion of the film, or the predicted level of revenue is less than expected, we may incur a loss if rights cannot be resold for the same amount or other loan collateral cannot cover required loan payments. Negative events in certain geographic areas, particularly California, could adversely affect us. Although we have significantly increased the geographic diversification of our loan portfolio since commencing our national expansion, our real estate loans remain heavily concentrated in the State of California, with approximately 54.4% of our real estate loans as of December 31, 2006 secured by collateral and made to borrowers in that state. In addition, as of that date, approximately 7.0% and 8.1% of our real estate loans were secured by collateral and made to borrowers in the States of Arizona and Texas, respectively. We have no other state geographic concentration of loans in excess of three percent of our total gross loan portfolio. A worsening of economic conditions in California or in any other state in which we have a significant concentration of borrowers could have a material adverse effect on our business, by reducing demand for new financings, limiting the ability of customers to repay existing loans, and impairing the value of our real estate collateral and real estate owned properties. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornados and hurricanes. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include brokered certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. 15 Table of Contents Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely on our computer systems, and outside sources providing technology, for much of our business, including recording our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources fail, are not reliable or there is a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Terrorist activities could cause reductions in investor confidence and substantial volatility in real estate and securities markets. It is impossible to predict the extent to which terrorist activities may occur in the United States or other regions, or their effect on a particular security issue. It is also uncertain what effects any past or future terrorist activities and or any consequent actions on the part of the United States government and others will have on the United States and world financial markets, local, regional and national economics, and real estate markets across the United States. Among other things, reduced investor confidence could result in substantial volatility in securities markets, a decline in general economic conditions and real estate related investments and an increase in loan defaults. Such unexpected losses and events could materially affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. Bank holding companies and California charted commercial banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies. We are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Imperial Capital Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, and DFI. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non banking activities; the level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC and DFI possess cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties The following sets forth our material facilities as of December 31, 2006. Locations Office Uses Square Footage Year Current Lease Term Expires La Jolla, CA Corporate Headquarters 21,903 2008 Glendale, CA Loan Operations Division/Loan Administration/Asset Management/Operations Support 28,467 2012 New York, NY East Coast Corporate Headquarters 3,810 2009 Century City, CA ICB Entertainment Finance 7,003 2008 Glendale, CA Bank Branch 4,791 2012 Encino, CA Bank Branch 5,145 2009 San Francisco, CA Bank Branch 5,005 2014 Costa Mesa, CA Bank Branch 3,609 2011 San Diego, CA Bank Branch 3,046 2011 Beverly Hills, CA Bank Branch 2,218 2010 Carson City, NV Bank Branch 3,000 2008 Walnut Creek, CA Loan Origination Office 2,220 2009 Boston, MA Loan Origination Office 3,309 2009 Atlanta, GA Loan Origination Office 3,148 2008 Fairfield, CT Loan Origination Office 1,992 2007 Redbank, NJ Loan Origination Office 1,800 2009 Houston, TX Loan Origination Office 3,420 2011 For additional information regarding our premises, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 5. Management believes that our present facilities are adequate for its current needs, and that alternative or additional space, if necessary, will be available on reasonable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are party to certain legal proceedings incidental to our business. Management believes that the outcome of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the quarter ended December 31, 2006. 17 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In December 2006, we filed an application and received approval to list our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on December 29, 2006 under the symbol IMP. Prior to trading on the NYSE, our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ITLA. As of March 5, 2007, there were 102 holders of record of ITLA Capitals common stock representing an estimated 4,171 beneficial shareholders with a total of 5,527,651 shares outstanding. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low trade prices for ITLA Capitals common stock and the cash dividends declared per share. Stock price data reflects inter dealer prices, without retail mark up, mark down or commission. Market Price Average Daily High Low Close Closing Price 2006 4th Quarter $ 58.96 $ 50.75 $ 57.91 $ 54.91 3rd Quarter 55.15 49.10 53.76 51.76 2nd Quarter 52.93 46.14 52.58 49.55 1st Quarter 50.20 44.65 48.22 47.28 2005 4th Quarter $ 53.55 $ 47.35 $ 48.85 $ 50.53 3rd Quarter 59.30 50.50 52.49 54.30 2nd Quarter 56.95 43.36 53.90 49.62 1st Quarter 58.31 49.37 49.96 53.89 Cash dividends declared per share 2006 2005 1st Quarter $ 0.15 $ 2nd Quarter 0.15 3rd Quarter 0.15 4th Quarter 0.15 Total $ 0.60 $ As a bank holding company, ITLA Capitals ability to pay dividends may be affected by regulations, including those governing the payment of dividends by the Bank to ITLA Capital, which could be a source of funds for any dividends paid by ITLA Capital, as well as by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Under federal regulations, the dollar amount of dividends the Bank may pay depends upon its capital position and recent net income. Generally, if the Bank satisfies its regulatory capital requirements, it may make dividend payments up to the limits prescribed under state law and FDIC regulations. Payments of the distributions on our trust preferred securities from the special purpose subsidiary trusts we sponsored are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us. The junior subordinated debentures that we have issued to our subsidiary trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make required payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the interest and principal obligations under the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We may defer the payment of interest on each of the junior subordinated debentures for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters, provided that the deferral period does not extend beyond the stated maturity. During such deferral period, distributions on the corresponding trust preferred securities will also be deferred and we may not pay cash dividends to the holders of shares of our common stock. We expect to pay a cash dividend of $0.16 per share for each quarter in 2007; however, there can be no assurance as to future dividends because they are dependent on our future earnings, capital requirements and financial condition. See Item 1. BusinessRegulation and Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 18 Table of Contents Stock Repurchases The following table sets forth the repurchases of our common stock for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 1, 2006 to October 31, 2006 30,000 $ 54.80 30,000 307,011 November 1, 2006 to November 30, 2006 307,011 December 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 9,050 55.52 9,050 297,961 Total 39,050 $ 54.97 39,050 297,961 (1) The repurchases during the three months ended December 31, 2006 were made under the eleventh extension of our stock repurchase program, which was announced on October 18, 2005. On March 14, 2006, the twelfth extension of our stock repurchase program was announced. The extensions authorized the repurchase of an additional 5% of the outstanding shares as of their respective authorization dates. At December 31, 2006, a total of 297,961 shares remained available for repurchase under the eleventh and twelfth extensions. Performance Graph The following graph, prepared by SNL Securities, L.C., compares the performance of our Common Stock with that of the NASDAQ Composite Index (U.S. Companies) and the SNL Bank Index over a five year period through December 31, 2006. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2001 in our Common Stock and in each of the foregoing indices and assumes the reinvestment of all dividends. Historical stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 19 Table of Contents 12/31/01 12/31/02 12/31/03 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 ITLA Capital Corporation 100.00 158.54 239.03 280.49 233.06 279.48 NASDAQ Composite (1) 100.00 68.76 103.67 113.16 115.57 127.58 SNL Bank Index 100.00 91.69 123.69 138.61 140.50 164.35 (1) The NASDAQ Composite index has been used rather than a New York Stock Exchange related index because we believe it is more relevant since we traded only for one day on the New York Stock Exchange in 2006. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following condensed consolidated statements of operations and financial condition and selected performance ratios as of December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and for the years then ended have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. The information below is qualified in its entirety by the detailed information included elsewhere herein and should be read along with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates The accounting and reporting policies followed by us conform, in all material respects, to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and to general practices within the financial services industry. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. While we base our estimates on historical experience, current information and other factors deemed to be relevant, actual results could differ from those estimates. 22 Table of Contents We consider accounting estimates to be critical to reported financial results if (i) the accounting estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain and (ii) different estimates that management reasonably could have used for the accounting estimate in the current period, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, could have a material impact on our financial statements. Accounting polices related to the allowance for loan losses are considered to be critical, as these policies involve considerable subjective judgment and estimation by management. We also consider our accounting polices related to other real estate owned to be critical due to the potential significance of these activities and the estimates involved. Critical accounting policies, and our procedures related to these policies, are described in detail below. Also see Note 1 Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Allowance for Loan Losses (ALL). Our management assesses the adequacy of the ALL prior to the end of each calendar quarter. This assessment includes procedures to estimate the allowance and test the adequacy and appropriateness of the resulting balance. We establish the ALL amount separately for two different risk groups (1) individual loans (loans with specifically identifiable risks); and (2) homogeneous loans (groups of loan with similar characteristics). We base the allocation for individual loans primarily on risk rating grades assigned to each of these loans as a result of our loan management and review processes. We then assign each risk rating grade a loss ratio, which is determined based on the experience of management and our independent loan review process. We estimate losses on impaired loans based on estimated cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate or based on the underlying collateral value. Based on managements experience, we also assign loss ratios to groups of loans. These loss ratios are assigned to the various homogenous categories of the portfolio. The level of the allowance also reflects managements continuing evaluation of geographic and credit concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. While management utilizes its best judgment and information available, the ultimate adequacy of the allowance is dependent upon a variety of factors beyond our control, including the performance of our loan portfolio, the economy, changes in interest rates and the view of the regulatory authorities toward loan classifications. We test the ALL balance by comparing the balance in the ALL to historical trends and peer information. Our management team then evaluates the result of the procedures performed, including the result of our testing, and concludes on the appropriateness of the balance of the ALL in its entirety. See the section captioned Allowance for Loan Losses and Nonperforming Assets elsewhere in this discussion for further details of the risk factors considered by management in estimating the necessary level of the allowance for loan losses. Other Real Estate Owned. Properties acquired through foreclosure, or in lieu of foreclosure, are transferred to the other real estate owned portfolio and initially recorded at estimated fair value less the estimated costs to sell the property. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less the estimated costs of disposition. The fair value of other real estate owned is generally determined from appraisals obtained from independent appraisers. 23 Table of Contents Adoption and Pending Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes APB Opinion No. 25. Generally, the approach to accounting for share based payments in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their grant date fair values (i.e., pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative to financial statement recognition). We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006 using a modified version of prospective application (modified prospective application). Under modified prospective application, as it is applicable to us, SFAS No. 123(R) applies to new awards and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after January 1, 2006. Additionally, compensation cost for the portion of awards for which the requisite service has not been rendered (generally referring to non vested awards) that are outstanding as of January 1, 2006 must be recognized as the remaining requisite service is rendered over periods after the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The attribution of compensation cost for those earlier awards will be based on the same method and on the same grant date fair values previously determined for the pro forma disclosures required for companies that did not adopt the fair value accounting method for stock based employee compensation. Total stock based compensation expense included in our consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately $266,000 ($165,000, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted share). No stock based compensation expense was included in the consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Unrecognized stock based compensation expense related to unvested stock options was approximately $66,000 at December 31, 2006. At that date, the weighted average period over which the unrecognized expense was expected to be recognized was 2.22 years. In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of SFAS Nos. 133 and 140. SFAS No. 155 permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation, clarifies which interest only strips and principal only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS No. 133, establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives, and amends SFAS No. 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. This statement is effective for us on January 1, 2007. Management does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 155 to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets. This statement amends SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, with respect to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. SFAS No. 156 requires companies to recognize a servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract. The statement permits a company to choose either the amortized cost method or fair value measurement method for each class of separately recognized servicing assets. This statement is effective for us on January 1, 2007. Management does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 156 to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for us on January 1, 2008. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 157 on our financial condition and results of operations. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 establishes a single model to address accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in a tax return. The interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition requirements. FIN 48 is effective for us on January 1, 2007. Management does not expect the adoption of FIN 48 to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which is a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and SFAS No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. APB Opinion No. 20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 on January 1, 2006 did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." SFAS No. 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The objective of SFAS No. 159 is to reduce both complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 is effective for us on January 1, 2008. Management does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 24 Table of Contents General The following discussion and analysis reviews the financial condition and results of our consolidated operations, including our significant consolidated subsidiaries: Imperial Capital Bank and Imperial Capital Real Estate Investment Trust. The following discussion and analysis is intended to identify the major factors that influenced our financial condition as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 and our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Our primary business involves the acceptance of customer deposits and the origination and purchase of loans secured by income producing real estate and, to a lesser extent, the origination of entertainment finance loans. Consolidated net income in 2006 was $26.9 million, or $4.71 per diluted share, compared to $24.1 million, or $4.04 per diluted share in 2005 and $30.6 million, or $4.75 per diluted share in 2004. The increase in net income in 2006 was primarily due to an increase in net interest income before provision for loan losses, which increased 3.0% to $94.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $91.7 million for the prior year. This increase was primarily due to the growth in the average balance of our loan portfolio, and adjustable rate loans repricing to higher current market interest rates, partially offset by additional interest expense incurred due to the growth in the average balance of interest bearing liabilities, deposits and other interest bearing liabilities repricing to higher current market interest rates, and the addition of new borrowings. Net income was further augmented by a $5.3 million decrease in the provision for loan losses recorded during 2006 compared to the prior year. The provision recorded during 2005 reflected the impact of a $29.3 million increase in our other loans of concern and a $9.6 million increase in non performing loans during the year. Despite the increase in our overall loan portfolio during 2006, the level of other loans of concern and non performing loans stabilized in 2006 compared to the prior year. Other loans of concern were $67.0 million and $66.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Other loans of concern consist of performing loans which have known information that have caused management to be concerned about the borrowers ability to comply with present loan repayment terms. Non performing loans totaled $26.3 million and $24.3 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006 and 2005. As a percentage of our total loan portfolio, the amount of other loans of concern and non performing loans decreased to 2.22% and 0.88%, respectively, at December 31, 2006, compared to 2.32% and 0.95%, respectively, at December 31, 2005. Net income was also impacted by a $3.8 million decline in non interest income earned during the year as compared to the prior year, as a result of a gain recorded during 2005 in connection with the sale of substantially all of our franchise loan portfolio. There were no comparable loan sales in 2006. The decrease in net income in 2005 as compared to 2004, was primarily due to the absence of interest and fee income earned in connection with the Banks tax refund lending (RAL) program, which terminated at the conclusion of the 2004 tax season. Despite the termination of the RAL program, net interest income before provision for loan losses increased 9.7% to $91.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $83.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This increase was due to the growth in the average balance of our loan portfolio, a decrease in the average balance of low yielding short term and overnight investments, and an increase in the average balance of higher yielding investment securities held to maturity as compared to 2004. The decline in the average balance of short term and overnight investment securities was a result of the termination of the RAL program, which generated a substantial level of liquidity during the quarter ended March 31, 2004. We invested this additional liquidity in short term and overnight investments, which earned a lower yield than we generally earn on our investment portfolio. The increase in interest income was partially offset by additional interest expense incurred due to the growth in the average balance of our interest bearing liabilities as compared to 2004, deposits repricing to higher market interest rates, and the addition of borrowings at higher market interest rates. Our earnings were negatively impacted by a $5.5 million increase in provision for loan losses recorded during 2005, as well as a $3.7 million increase in non interest expense. Non interest expense increased due to the investment in the national expansion of our real estate lending platform. Total loan production, including the unfunded portion of loans, was $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $1.6 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Loan production in 2006 consisted of the origination of $693.1 million of commercial real estate loans, $293.7 million of small balance multi family real estate loans and $102.7 million of entertainment finance loans, and the acquisition of $497.8 million of commercial and multi family real estate loans by our wholesale loan operations. Our average total assets increased approximately 15.9% during 2006 to $3.1 billion. Average cash and investment securities totaled $419.8 million in 2006 compared to $432.8 million in 2005, a decrease of $13.0 million, or 3.0%. Average loans receivable totaled $2.7 billion in 2006 compared to $2.2 billion in 2005, an increase of $429.0 million, or 19.2%. Average interest bearing deposit accounts totaled $1.8 billion in 2006 compared to $1.7 billion in 2005, an increase of $189.9 million, or 11.5%. FHLB advances and other borrowings averaged $926.9 million in 2006, compared to $707.4 million in 2005, an increase of $219.5 million, or 31.0%. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of our total loans was 1.5% at December 31, 2006, as compared to 1.7% at December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we had net charge offs of $2.8 million, compared to $1.9 million during the prior year. At December 31, 2006, shareholders equity totaled $221.3 million, or 6.5% of total assets. During 2006, we announced our first regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share. During the year, we declared total dividends of $0.60 per share, or approximately $3.2 million in total. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we repurchased 228,781 shares at an average price of $49.19 per share. Since beginning share repurchases in April 1997, a total of 3.5 million shares have been repurchased, returning approximately $101.1 million of capital to our shareholders at an average price of $28.64 per share. Through our stock repurchase program, all of our contributed capital has been returned to shareholders. ITLA Capitals book value per share of common stock was $42.07 as of December 31, 2006, an increase of 11.1% from $37.85 per share as of December 31, 2005. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents, for the periods indicated, our condensed average balance sheet information, together with interest income and yields earned on average interest earning assets and interest expense and rates paid on average interest bearing liabilities. Average balances are computed using daily average balances. Nonaccrual loans are included in loans receivable. Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Average Balance Income/ Expense Yield/ Rate Average Balance Income/ Expense Yield/ Rate Average Balance Income/ Expense Yield/ Rate (dollars in thousands) Assets Cash and investment securities $ 419,762 $ 19,181 4.57 % $ 432,774 $ 18,438 4.26 % $ 419,452 $ 9,291 2.22 % Real estate loans (1) 2,588,452 200,322 7.74 % 2,016,691 141,061 6.99 % 1,368,384 96,460 7.05 % Franchise loans (1) 11,578 475 4.10 % 121,768 9,972 8.19 % 125,280 8,608 6.87 % Entertainment finance loans (1) 59,262 5,620 9.48 % 89,420 7,724 8.64 % 96,227 7,040 7.32 % Commercial and other loans (1) 8,962 903 10.08 % 11,382 963 8.46 % 16,234 3,555 21.90 % Total loans receivable 2,668,254 207,320 7.77 % 2,239,261 159,720 7.13 % 1,606,125 115,663 7.20 % Total interest earning assets 3,088,016 $ 226,501 7.33 % 2,672,035 $ 178,158 6.67 % 2,025,577 $ 124,954 6.17 % Non interest earning assets 70,936 51,549 94,739 Allowance for loan losses (46,366 ) (37,978 ) (35,214 ) Total assets $ 3,112,586 $ 2,685,606 $ 2,085,102 Liabilities and Shareholders Equity Interest bearing demand accounts $ 29,047 $ 836 2.88 % $ 51,684 $ 1,236 2.39 % $ 80,052 $ 1,409 1.76 % Money market and passbook accounts 207,962 9,379 4.51 % 177,213 5,308 3.00 % 140,637 2,680 1.91 % Time certificates 1,603,210 74,941 4.67 % 1,421,415 47,263 3.33 % 1,003,555 23,827 2.37 % Total interest bearing deposit accounts 1,840,219 85,156 4.63 % 1,650,312 53,807 3.26 % 1,224,244 27,916 2.28 % FHLB advances and other borrowings 926,916 38,722 4.18 % 707,391 25,508 3.61 % 277,828 7,343 2.64 % Junior subordinated debentures 86,600 8,197 9.47 % 86,600 7,171 8.28 % 86,600 6,159 7.11 % Total interest bearing liabilities 2,853,735 $ 132,075 4.63 % 2,444,303 $ 86,486 3.54 % 1,588,672 $ 41,418 2.61 % Non interest bearing demand accounts 12,738 27,671 8,023 Other non interest bearing liabilities 35,173 15,086 290,077 Shareholders equity 210,940 198,546 198,330 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 3,112,586 $ 2,685,606 $ 2,085,102 Net interest spread (2) 2.70 % 3.13 % 3.56 % Net interest income before provisions for loan losses $ 94,426 $ 91,672 $ 83,536 Net interest margin (3) 3.06 % 3.43 % 4.12 % (1) Before allowance for loan losses and net of deferred loan fees and costs. Net loan fee accretion of $2.8 million, $2.9 million and $1.8 million was included in net interest income for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (2) Average yield on interest earning assets minus average rate paid on interest bearing liabilities. (3) Net interest income divided by total average interest earning assets. Our primary source of revenue is net interest income. Our net interest income is affected by (a) the difference between the yields earned on interest earning assets, including loans and investments, and the interest rates paid on interest bearing liabilities, including deposits and borrowings, which is referred to as net interest spread, and (b) the relative amounts of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. As of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our ratio of average interest earning assets to average interest bearing liabilities was 108.2%, 109.3% and 127.5%, respectively. The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in interest income and interest expense resulting from changes in average interest earning asset and interest bearing liability balances and changes in average interest rates. The change in interest due to both volume and rate has been allocated to change due to volume and rate in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of each. 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004 Increase (Decrease) Due to: Increase (Decrease) Due to: Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total (in thousands) Interest and fees earned on: Loans, net $ 32,413 $ 15,187 $ 47,600 $ 45,191 $ (1,134 ) $ 44,057 Cash and investment securities (567 ) 1,310 743 306 8,841 9,147 Total increase in interest income 31,846 16,497 48,343 45,497 7,707 53,204 Interest paid on: Deposit accounts 6,739 24,610 31,349 11,584 14,307 25,891 FHLB advances and other borrowings 8,758 4,456 13,214 14,677 3,488 18,165 Junior subordinated debentures 1,026 1,026 1,012 1,012 Total increase in interest expense 15,497 30,092 45,589 26,261 18,807 45,068 Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 16,349 $ (13,595 ) $ 2,754 $ 19,236 $ (11,100 ) $ 8,136 26 Table of Contents 2006 Compared to 2005 Net Interest Income Net interest income before provision for loan losses increased to $94.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $91.7 million for the prior year, an increase of 3.0%. The increase was primarily caused by an increase in interest income, attributable to the significant growth in the average balance of our loan portfolio and adjustable rate loans repricing to higher current market interest rates. The increase in interest income was partially offset by additional interest expense incurred due to the likewise significant growth in the average balance of our interest bearing liabilities as compared to the prior year, deposits and other interest bearing liabilities repricing to higher current market interest rates, and the addition of new borrowings. The average yield on our total loan portfolio was 7.77% in 2006 compared to 7.13% in 2005. The average yield on our real estate loan portfolio was 7.74% in 2006 compared to 6.99% in 2005. Our adjustable rate mortgages are primarily indexed to either six month LIBOR or the Prime Rate with interest rate floors, below which the loans contractual interest rate may not adjust. Approximately 51.3% of our loan portfolio was comprised of adjustable rate loans at December 31, 2006, and approximately 45.5% of the loan portfolio was comprised of hybrid loans, which, after an initial fixed rate period of three or five years, will convert to an adjustable interest rate for the remaining term of the loan. Our adjustable rate loans generally re price on a quarterly or semi annual basis with increases generally limited to maximum adjustments of 2% per year up to 5% for the life of the loan. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $2.7 billion, or 90.5% of our adjustable rate loan portfolio contained interest rate floors, below which the loans contractual interest rate may not adjust. The inability of our loans to adjust downward can contribute to increased income in periods of declining interest rates, and also assists us in our efforts to limit the risks to earnings resulting from changes in interest rates, subject to the risk that borrowers may refinance these loans during periods of declining interest rates. At December 31, 2006, the weighted average floor interest rate of our adjustable rate loan portfolio was 6.03%. At that date, approximately $95.0 million or 3.2% of our adjustable rate loan portfolio was at the floor interest rate. At December 31, 2006, 52.0% of the adjustable rate loans outstanding had a lifetime interest rate cap. The weighted average lifetime interest rate cap on our adjustable rate loan portfolio was 11.60%. At December 31, 2006, none of the loans in our adjustable rate loan portfolio were at the cap rate. Interest expense on interest bearing liabilities increased $45.6 million, or 52.7%, to $132.1 million in 2006 compared to $86.5 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to an increase in interest expense on deposits and FHLB advances and other borrowings. Interest expense from deposit accounts increased $31.3 million, or 58.3%, to $85.2 million in 2006 compared to $53.8 million in 2005 due to the growth in interest bearing deposits during 2006 and the increase in the average rate paid on deposits as a result of higher current market interest rates as compared to the prior year. The average rate paid on deposits was 4.63% in 2006 compared to 3.26% in 2005. Interest expense on FHLB advances and other borrowings increased $13.2 million, or 51.8%, to $38.7 million in 2006 compared to $25.5 million in 2005. This increase was primarily caused by additional borrowings utilized to finance lending activities during the year. The average balance of FHLB advances and other borrowings increased $219.5 million, or 31.0%, to $926.9 million in 2006 compared to $707.4 million in 2005. The increase was further caused by an increase in the rate paid on FHLB advances and other borrowings, which was 4.18% in 2006 as compared to 3.61% in 2005. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses was $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $10.3 million for the prior year. These provisions for loan losses were recorded to provide reserves adequate to support known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio and for specific reserves as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The provision recorded during 2005 reflected the impact of a $29.3 million increase in our other loans of concern, a $9.6 million increase in non performing loans during the year and a 40.3% increase in our loan portfolio. Despite the significant continued growth in the size of our overall loan portfolio during 2006, the level of other loans of concern and non performing loans remained relatively flat in 2006 compared to the prior year. Other loans of concern were $67.0 million and $66.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Non performing loans totaled $26.3 million and $24.3 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006 and 2005. As a percentage of our total loan portfolio, the amount of other loans of concern and non performing loans decreased to 2.22% and 0.88%, respectively, at December 31, 2006, compared to 2.32% and 0.95%, respectively, at December 31, 2005. See also Credit Risk Elements Allowance for Loan Losses and Nonperforming Assets. 27 Table of Contents Non interest Income Non interest income was $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $6.6 million for the prior year. In 2005, we recorded a $4.9 million gain in connection with the sale of substantially all of our franchise loan portfolio. There were no comparable loan sales in 2006. Non interest Expense General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expenses increased to $46.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $46.3 million for the prior year. Our efficiency ratio (defined as general and administrative expenses as percentage of net revenue) was 47.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 47.1% for the same period last year. Full time equivalent associates averaged 259 in 2006 compared to 244 in 2005. Income Taxes Provision for income taxes increased to $18.5 million in 2006 compared to $17.5 million in 2005. The increase in provision for income taxes was due to the increase in taxable income earned in 2006, partially offset by a decline in our effective tax rate. The effective tax rate was 40.75% and 42.08%, respectively, for 2006 and 2005. At December 31, 2006, we had a net deferred tax asset of $11.5 million. The deferred tax asset related primarily to loan loss provisions recognized on our financial statements that have not yet been recognized on our income tax returns. During 2006 and 2005, we had no deferred tax assets relating to net operating loss carryforward deductions. The deferred tax assets were considered fully realizable. Accordingly, no valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets was established in 2006 and 2005. 2005 Compared to 2004 Net Interest Income Net interest income before provision for loan losses increased to $91.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $83.5 million for 2004, an increase of 9.7%. The increase was primarily caused by the growth in the average balance of our loan portfolio, a decrease in the average balance of low yielding short term and overnight investments, and an increase in the average balance of higher yielding investment securities held to maturity as compared to 2004. The decline in the average balance of short term and overnight investment securities was a result of the termination of the RAL program, which generated a substantial level of liquidity during the quarter ended March 31, 2004. We invested this additional liquidity in short term and overnight investments, which earned a lower yield than we generally earn on our current investment portfolio. The increase in net interest income was partially offset by additional interest expense incurred due to the growth in the average balance of our interest bearing liabilities as compared to the prior year, deposits repricing to higher market interest rates, and the addition of new borrowings at higher market interest rates. The average yield on our total loan portfolio was 7.13% in 2005 compared to 7.20% in 2004. The average yield on our real estate loan portfolio was 6.99% in 2005 compared to 7.05% in 2004. Approximately 61.8% of our loan portfolio was comprised of adjustable rate loans at December 31, 2005, and approximately 35.8% of the loan portfolio was comprised of hybrid loans. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $2.3 billion or 92.7% of our adjustable rate loan portfolio contained interest rate floors, below which the loans contractual interest rate may not adjust. At December 31, 2005, the weighted average floor interest rate of our adjustable rate loan portfolio was 6.13%. At that date, approximately $172.0 million or 7.1% of our adjustable rate loan portfolio was at the floor interest rate. At December 31, 2005, 68.2% of the adjustable rate loans outstanding had a lifetime interest rate cap. The weighted average lifetime interest rate cap on our adjustable rate loan portfolio was 11.33%. At December 31, 2005, none of the loans in our adjustable rate loan portfolio were at the cap rate. 28 Table of Contents Interest expense on interest bearing liabilities increased $45.1 million, or 108.8%, to $86.5 million in 2005 compared to $41.4 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to an increase in interest expense on deposits and FHLB advances and other borrowings. Interest expense from deposit accounts increased $25.9 million, or 92.7%, to $53.8 million in 2005 compared to $27.9 million in 2004 due to the growth in interest bearing deposits during 2005 and the increase in the average rate paid on deposits as a result of higher current market interest rates as compared to the prior year. The average rate paid on deposits was 3.26% in 2005 compared to 2.28% in 2004. Interest expense on FHLB advances and other borrowings increased $18.2 million, or 247.4%, to $25.5 million in 2005 compared to $7.3 million in 2004. This increase was primarily caused by additional borrowings utilized to finance lending and investment activities during 2005. The average balance of FHLB advances and other borrowings increased $429.6 million, or 154.6%, to $707.4 million in 2005 compared to $277.8 million in 2004. The increase was further impacted by an increase in the rate paid on FHLB advances and other borrowings, which was 3.61% in 2005 as compared to 2.64% in 2004. Provision for Loan Losses Provision for loan losses increased to $10.3 million in 2005 compared to $4.7 million in 2004. The provision for loan losses was recorded to provide reserves adequate to support the known and inherent risk of loss in the loan portfolio, and for specific reserves required at December 31, 2005. The provision increased during 2005 due to an increase in our other loans of concern, a 40.3% increase in our loan portfolio, and the increase in non performing loans. Non performing loans totaled $24.3 million and $14.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2005 and 2004. This increase in non performing loans was primarily attributable to the migration of three loans to non performing status during 2005. Non interest Income Non interest income decreased $7.9 million to $6.6 million in 2005 compared to $14.5 million in 2004. Non interest income for 2005 consisted primarily of a $4.9 million gain recorded in connection with the sale of franchise loans. During 2004, non interest income primarily consisted of fee income earned in connection with the Banks RAL program. During 2004, we earned $9.3 million of net premiums on the sale of RAL loans and $4.6 million of processing and administrative fees. Because the RAL program related to the filing of income tax returns, transaction activity was concentrated during the tax season. This resulted in our earning substantially all of our RAL program income in the first quarter of 2004. Non interest Expense General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expenses increased to $46.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $42.0 million for the prior year. The increase in general and administrative expenses was caused by the additional overhead expenses incurred in connection with the national expansion of our loan production platform compared to 2004. This increase was primarily the result of a full year of overhead expenses incurred during 2005 for offices that were opened throughout 2004. Our efficiency ratio (defined as general and administrative expenses as percentage of net revenue) was 47.1% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 42.9% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The variance in our efficiency ratio was primarily due to the decline in net revenue earned as a result of the termination of the RAL program and the continued national expansion of our small balance multi family lending platform. Full time equivalent associates averaged 244 in 2005 compared to 236 in 2004. Income Taxes Provision for income taxes decreased to $17.5 million in 2005 compared to $19.9 million in 2004. The decrease in provision for income taxes was due to the decline in taxable income earned in 2005. The effective tax rate was 42.08% and 39.44%, respectively, for 2005 and 2004. The increase in the effective tax rate was principally due to a reduction in the allowable deduction on tax exempt income earned on loans located in designated redevelopment and enterprise zones. 29 Table of Contents At December 31, 2005, we had a net deferred tax asset of $12.7 million. The deferred tax asset related primarily to loan loss provisions recognized on our financial statements that have not yet been recognized on our income tax returns. During 2005 and 2004, we had no deferred tax assets relating to net operating loss carry forward deductions. The deferred tax asset was considered fully realizable. Accordingly, no valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset was established in 2005 and 2004. Financial Condition At December 31, 2006 Compared with December 31, 2005 Total assets increased by $364.3 million, or 11.9%, to $3.4 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $3.1 billion at December 31, 2005. The increase in total assets was primarily due to a $452.1 million increase in our loan portfolio, partially offset by a $63.3 million decrease in cash and cash equivalents and a $40.4 million decline in investment securities held to maturity. The increase in the loan portfolio was primarily due to our significant loan production, partially offset by loan repayments, as well as loan prepayments, received during the year. The growth in assets was primarily funded by the increase in deposits of $324.0 million and an increase in FHLB advances and other borrowings of $17.4 million. The increase in shareholders equity was primarily due to the retention of net income and a $3.7 million increase in contributed capital, which was primarily related to the exercise of stock options, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $11.3 million and cash dividends of $3.2 million. At December 31, 2005 Compared with December 31, 2004 Total assets increased by $733.1 million, or 31.6%, to $3.1 billion at December 31, 2005 compared to $2.3 billion at December 31, 2004. The increase in total assets was primarily due to a $738.0 million increase in our loan portfolio, a $25.7 million increase in investment securities available for sale, and a $20.6 million increase in FHLB stock, partially offset by a $62.1 million decline in investment securities held to maturity and an $8.3 million increase in the allowance for loan losses. The increase in the loan portfolio was primarily due to our loan production, partially offset by loan repayements, as well as loan prepayments, received during the year. The growth in assets was primarily funded by the increase in deposits of $303.4 million and an increase in FHLB advances and other borrowings of $408.3 million. The increase in shareholders equity was primarily due to the retention of net income and an $8.7 million increase in contributed capital, which is primarily related to the exercise of stock options, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $22.6 million. Loans Receivable, Net The following table shows the comparison of our loan portfolio by major categories as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands) Real estate loans $ 2,546,904 $ 2,154,372 $ 1,387,973 $ 1,196,729 $ 1,189,258 Construction loans 347,751 302,932 183,207 129,540 101,422 Total real estate loans 2,894,655 2,457,304 1,571,180 1,326,269 1,290,680 Entertainment finance loans 74,204 66,514 99,729 98,630 119,283 Franchise loans 9,334 13,705 137,477 102,128 54,672 Commercial and other loans 9,346 7,264 11,931 6,869 4,314 2,987,539 2,544,787 1,820,317 1,533,896 1,468,949 Unamortized premium 18,138 14,582 6,346 5,429 7,898 Deferred loan origination costs (fees), net 13,740 7,928 2,635 (500 ) (5,604 ) 3,019,417 2,567,297 1,829,298 1,538,825 1,471,243 Allowance for loan losses (46,049 ) (43,817 ) (35,483 ) (33,401 ) (33,009 ) $ 2,973,368 $ 2,523,480 $ 1,793,815 $ 1,505,424 $ 1,438,234 30 Table of Contents The contractual maturities of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2006 are as follows: Loans Maturing in Less Than One Year Between One and Five Years Greater Than Five Years Total (dollars in thousands) Real estate loans $ 83,393 $ 277,568 $ 2,185,943 $ 2,546,904 Construction loans 217,368 130,383 347,751 Entertainment finance loans 60,165 14,039 74,204 Franchise loans 4,372 223 4,739 9,334 Commercial and other loans 4,812 4,534 9,346 $ 370,110 $ 426,747 $ 2,190,682 $ 2,987,539 Loans with fixed interest rates $ 369 $ 19,903 $ 32,595 $ 52,867 Loans with adjustable interest rates 369,741 406,844 2,158,087 2,934,672 $ 370,110 $ 426,747 $ 2,190,682 $ 2,987,539 Percentage with adjustable interest rates 99.9 % 95.3 % 98.5 % 98.2 % The table above should not be regarded as a forecast of future cash collections because a substantial portion of loans may be renewed or repaid prior to contractual maturity and have adjustable interest rates. The following table sets forth certain information regarding the real property collateral securing our real estate loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006. Number of Gross Loan Percent of Range of Principal Balance Non Accrual Loans Amount Total Min Max Average Loans (dollars in thousands) Income Producing Property Loans: Multi family (5 or more units) 2,565 $ 1,865,992 64.47 % $ 2 $ 11,944 $ 727 $ 8,897 Retail 117 139,955 4.83 % 12 10,010 1,196 965 Office 82 113,215 3.91 % 12 13,500 1,381 Hotel 15 38,115 1.32 % 66 6,886 2,541 878 Industrial/warehouse 48 60,799 2.10 % 79 7,000 1,267 Mixed use 75 75,928 2.62 % 7 9,697 1,012 1,041 Mobile home parks 42 29,751 1.03 % 253 2,171 708 Assisted living 5 21,885 0.76 % 1,462 7,328 4,377 Storage 10 34,718 1.20 % 684 5,950 3,472 Other 153 102,868 3.55 % 2 10,069 672 1,900 Total income producing 3,112 2,483,226 85.79 % 13,681 Construction and Land: Construction 78 347,751 12.02 % 282 23,763 4,458 Land 9 22,722 0.78 % 368 7,565 2,525 Total construction and land 87 370,473 12.80 % Single family mortgages: Single family (1 4 units) 97 40,956 1.41 % 7 942 422 410 3,296 $ 2,894,655 100.00 % $ 14,091 31 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the location of the collateral for our real estate loan portfolios as of December 31, 2006. Number of Loans Gross Loan Amount Percent of Total (dollars in thousands) Southern California: Los Angeles County 805 $ 643,344 22.23 % Riverside County 48 120,311 4.16 % Orange County 56 83,354 2.88 % San Diego County 66 66,201 2.29 % San Bernardino County 59 50,863 1.76 % All other Southern California Counties 5 4,223 0.15 % Total Southern California 1,039 968,296 33.47 % Northern California: San Francisco County 85 109,903 3.80 % Alameda County 110 102,407 3.54 % Fresno County 60 56,386 1.95 % Contra Costa County 45 50,260 1.74 % Santa Clara County 45 35,255 1.22 % San Mateo County 25 35,127 1.21 % Kern County 39 27,775 0.96 % San Joaquin 34 25,244 0.87 % Sacramento 32 24,970 0.86 % All other Northern California Counties 116 138,499 4.78 % Total Northern California 591 605,826 20.93 % Outside California: Texas 228 241,136 8.33 % Arizona 197 208,323 7.20 % Georgia 56 84,915 2.93 % Florida 91 79,035 2.73 % New York 109 69,306 2.39 % Nevada 74 57,834 2.00 % Massachusetts 95 56,402 1.95 % Colorado 69 44,306 1.53 % Connecticut 95 39,225 1.36 % Oklahoma 38 34,250 1.18 % Ohio 61 34,171 1.18 % Oregon 55 33,326 1.15 % New Jersey 58 30,044 1.04 % Tennessee 32 29,085 1.00 % Washington 38 25,899 0.89 % Other U.S. states 370 253,276 8.74 % Total Outside California 1,666 1,320,533 45.60 % 3,296 $ 2,894,655 100.00 % Although we generally seek to limit risks associated with our portfolio of real estate and construction loans by limiting the geographic concentration and by varying the types of underlying collateral, significant concentration risks still remain. Concentrations of loans in certain geographic regions, for example, cause our risk associated with these loans to be closely associated with the general economic and social environment of the region. Localized economic and competitive conditions, natural disasters, possible terrorist activities or social conditions all may affect the values of collateral located within a particular geographic area. In addition, certain types of properties may be more or less subject to changes in prevailing economic, competitive or social conditions. 32 Table of Contents The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our loan originations and purchases. Fundings related to the tax refund lending programs terminated in 2004, and premiums paid and discounts taken on loans purchased in the secondary market are not included below. As of and for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in thousands) Gross real estate loans originated $ 960,187 $ 846,685 $ 721,090 Gross entertainment finance loans originated 102,703 68,687 92,179 Gross franchise loans originated 2,352 52,145 Gross commercial and other loans originated 26,662 1,863 58,342 Gross real estate loans purchased 498,785 723,822 136,452 Total loan production $ 1,588,337 $ 1,643,409 $ 1,060,208 Gross loans at end of period $ 2,987,539 $ 2,544,787 $ 1,820,317 Gross loans weighted average portfolio yield 7.68 % 7.13 % 7.20 % Average size of loans retained in the Companys portfolio $ 1,110 $ 803 $ 919 Investment Securities At December 31, 2006, our investment securities totaled $293.0 million, or 8.6% of our total assets. Our investment securities, including the mortgage backed securities portfolio, are managed in accordance with a written investment policy adopted by the Board of Directors. It is our general policy to purchase U.S. Government securities and federal agency obligations and other investment grade securities. At December 31, 2006, our entire mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations portfolios consisted of investment grade securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Our investment securities portfolio at December 31, 2006, contained neither securities of any issuer nor tax exempt securities with an aggregate book value in excess of 10% of stockholders equity, excluding those issued by United States agencies including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Bank. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2. The following table shows the amortized cost and approximate fair value of investment securities at the dates indicated. December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value (in thousands) Investment securities available for sale U.S. agency securities $ 62,554 $ 62,184 $ 89,897 $ 88,829 $ 61,637 $ 61,347 Collateralized mortgage obligations 34,991 35,127 Residual interest in securitized loans 1,911 2,039 3,257 3,570 5,055 5,368 Equity securities 13 177 16 164 25 130 Total investment securities available for sale $ 99,469 $ 99,527 $ 93,170 $ 92,563 $ 66,717 $ 66,845 Investment securities held to maturity Mortgage backed securities $ 193,512 $ 190,475 $ 233,880 $ 229,025 $ 296,028 $ 295,226 During the first quarter of 2002, we formed a limited liability company to issue $86.3 million of asset backed notes in a securitization of substantially all of our residential loan portfolio, and we recorded a residual interest of $5.6 million, which represented the present value of future cash flows (spread and fees) that were anticipated to be received over the life of the loans. The residual interest is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets in the Investment securities available for sale, at fair value. The value of the residual interest is subject to substantial credit, prepayment, and interest rate risk on the sold residential loans. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, the residual interest is classified as available for sale and, as such, recorded at fair value with the resultant changes in fair value recorded as unrealized gain or loss in a separate component of shareholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, until realized. Fair value is determined on a monthly basis based on a discounted cash flow analysis. These cash flows are projected over the lives of the receivables using prepayment, default, and interest rate assumptions that we believe market participants would use for similar financial instruments. During 2005, we recognized an other than temporary impairment of $250,000, in connection with the residual interest. Impairments that are deemed to be other than temporary are charged to non interest income. In evaluating impairments as other than temporary we consider credit risk, as well as the magnitude and trend of default rates and prepayment speeds of the underlying residential loans. No other than temporary impairment was recognized during 2006. 33 Table of Contents At December 31, 2006 and 2005, key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the residual interest based on projected cash flows, and the sensitivity of the value to immediate adverse changes in those assumptions were as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 (dollars in thousands) Fair value of retained interest $ 2,039 $ 3,570 Weighted average life (in years) securities 0.55 0.56 Weighted average life (in years) residual interest 2.74 2.92 Weighted average annual prepayment speed 40.0 % 40.0 % Impact of 10% adverse change $ (6 ) $ (22 ) Impact of 25% adverse change $ (10 ) $ (34 ) Weighted average annual discount rate 13.0 % 13.0 % Impact of 10% adverse change $ (65 ) $ (117 ) Impact of 25% adverse change $ (156 ) $ (284 ) Weighted average lifetime credit losses 20.2 % 14.3 % Impact of 10% adverse change $ (86 ) $ (79 ) Impact of 25% adverse change $ (224 ) $ (211 ) These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution. As the figures indicate, changes in the fair value of the residual are based on a variation in assumptions and generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in the above table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the residual interest is calculated without changing any other assumption; in reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower prepayments but increased credit losses), which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities, and depending on the severity of such changes, the results of operations may be materially affected. The following table indicates the composition of the investment security portfolio assuming these securities are held to maturity based on the final maturity of each investment as of December 31, 2006. Mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are included in maturity categories based on their stated maturity date. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to prepay obligations. Equity securities classified as available for sale have no maturity and are included in the due in one year or less column. Due in One Year or Less Due after One Year through Five Years Due after Five Years through Ten Years Due after Ten Years Balance Weighted Average Yield Balance Weighted Average Yield Balance Weighted Average Yield Balance Weighted Average Yield (dollars in thousands) Investment securities available for sale U.S. agency securities $ 52,285 3.84 % $ 9,899 4.58 % $ $ Collateralized mortgage obligations 14,899 5.57 % 20,228 5.98 % Equity securities 177 Residual interest in securitized loans 2,039 Total investment securities available for sale $ 52,462 $ 11,938 $ 14,899 $ 20,228 Investment securities held to maturity Mortgage backed securities $ $ $ $ 193,512 4.25 % Liquidity and Deposit Accounts Liquidity refers to our ability to maintain cash flow adequate to fund operations and meet obligations and other commitments on a timely basis, including the payment of maturing deposits and the origination or purchase of new loans. We maintain a cash and investment securities portfolio designed to satisfy operating and regulatory liquidity requirements while preserving capital and maximizing yield. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Banks liquidity ratios (defined as the Banks current assets divided by its current liabilities) were 6.4% and 10.5%, respectively, exceeding the DFI regulatory requirement of 1.5%. In addition, the Banks liquidity position is supported by a credit facility with the FHLB of San Francisco. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank had remaining available borrowing capacity under this credit facility of $310.3 million, net of the $12.2 million of additional FHLB Stock that we would be required to purchase to support those additional borrowings, and $128.0 million of unused federal funds credit facilities under established lines of credit with four other banks. Additionally, we have a $25.0 million revolving credit facility with an unaffiliated bank that expires on April 30, 2007. We intend on renewing this revolving credit facility when it matures. 34 Table of Contents Total deposit accounts increased approximately $324.0 million to $2.1 billion at December 31, 2006 from $1.7 billion at December 31, 2005. The increase in deposits in 2006 was primarily related to an increase in time certificate of deposits of $304.4 million and an increase in money market and passbook accounts of $23.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in demand deposit accounts of $4.2 million. Brokered deposits totaled $332.8 million and $152.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Total deposit accounts increased approximately $303.4 million to $1.7 billion at December 31, 2005 from $1.4 billion at December 31, 2004. In both 2006 and 2005, the funds provided from deposits were used primarily to fund the growth in our loan portfolio. Although we compete for deposits primarily on the basis of rates, based on our historical experience regarding retention of deposits, management believes that a significant portion of deposits will remain with us upon maturity on an ongoing basis. The following table sets forth information regarding deposits outstanding at the dates indicated. December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands) Non interest demand accounts $ 23,171 $ 13,660 $ 13,108 Interest demand accounts 24,523 38,197 72,832 Money market and passbook accounts 210,236 186,453 172,092 Time certificates under $100,000 784,732 763,701 703,493 Time certificates $100,000 and over 1,016,743 733,417 470,507 $ 2,059,405 $ 1,735,428 $ 1,432,032 The following table sets forth the maturities of certificates of deposit $100,000 and over at December 31, 2006 (in thousands): Certificates of deposit $100,000 and over: Maturing within three months $ 373,451 After three but within six months 294,938 After six but within twelve months 226,063 After twelve months 122,291 $ 1,016,743 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of operations, we engage in a variety of financial transactions that, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles are not recorded in the financial statements. These transactions involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit, interest rate, and liquidity risk. Such transactions are used by us to meet the financing needs of our customers. Our off balance sheet arrangements, which principally include lending commitments, are described below. At December 31, 2006, we also had a residual interest of $2.0 million in a qualified special purpose entity formed in 2002 to issue $86.3 million of asset backed notes in a securitization of substantially all of our residential loan portfolio, and a $2.6 million equity interest in our deconsolidated trusts through which we have issued trust preferred securities. See Notes 8 and 10 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Lending Commitments. Lending commitments include loan commitments and unused lines of credit. The instruments are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet until funds are advanced under the commitments. We provide these lending commitments to customers in the normal course of business. At December 31, 2006, our approved loan origination commitments outstanding totaled $256.7 million. Unfunded commercial lines of credit totaled $1.1 million. These lines of credit are commitments for possible future extension of credit to existing customers. These lines of credit are typically uncollateralized and usually do not contain a specified maturity date. We apply essentially the same credit policies and standards as we do in the lending process when making these commitments. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report for additional information regarding lending commitments. 35 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table shows our contractual obligations by expected payment period, as of December 31, 2006. Further discussion of these commitments is included in Notes 6, 8, 9, and 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Contractual Obligations Total Less Than One Year One Through Three Years Three Through Five Years More Than Five Years (in thousands) Long term FHLB advances and other borrowings $ 832,502 $ 257,267 $ 248,248 $ 282,917 $ 44,070 Junior subordinated debentures 86,600 86,600 Operating lease obligations 13,042 3,640 5,382 2,867 1,153 Deposits with stated maturity dates 1,801,475 1,636,998 83,432 81,045 Purchase obligations 2,849 1,000 922 927 $ 2,736,468 $ 1,898,905 $ 337,984 $ 367,756 $ 131,823 FHLB advances and other borrowings have defined terms and under certain circumstances are callable at the option of the lender. The junior subordinated debentures are callable by us under the circumstances and at the times described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Operating leases represent obligations entered into by us for office facilities. Certain of these noncancelable operating leases contain rental escalation clauses based on increases in the consumer price index. At the end of the lease obligations, renewal options may be exercised by us for up to an additional ten years. Purchase obligations represent our contractual service and other operating and marketing obligations. Capital Resources ITLA Capital, the Banks holding company, had Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk based and total risk based capital ratios at December 31, 2006 of 9.0%, 10.2%, 11.9%, respectively, which, in the case of the Tier 1 risk based and total risk based capital ratios, represents $120.3 million and $53.5 million, respectively, of capital in excess of the amount required to be well capitalized for bank holding company regulatory purposes. These ratios were 9.1%, 11.0%, 13.0%, respectively, at December 31, 2005. Portions of our trust preferred securities presently qualify as Tier 1 and total risk based capital. See Note 8 and Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. The Bank had Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk based and total risk based capital ratios at December 31, 2006 of 9.1%, 10.3% and 11.5%, respectively, which represents $130.0 million, $120.3 million and $42.6 million, respectively, of capital in excess of the amount required for the Bank to be well capitalized for regulatory purposes. These ratios were 9.1%, 11.0% and 12.2%, respectively, as of December 31, 2005. Shareholders equity increased to $221.3 million at December 31, 2006 from $204.5 million at December 31, 2005. The change was primarily due to the increase in retained earnings as a result of $26.9 million of net income earned during the year and a $3.7 million increase in contributed capital, which was primarily related to the exercise of employee stock options, partially offset by the purchase of $11.3 million of our common stock currently held as treasury stock and cash dividends of $3.2 million. 36 Table of Contents Credit Risk Elements Allowance for Loan Losses and Nonperforming Assets The following table provides certain information with respect to our total allowance for loan losses, including charge offs, recoveries and selected ratios, for the periods indicated. As of and for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) Balance at beginning of year $ 43,817 $ 35,483 $ 33,401 $ 33,009 $ 26,650 Provision for loan losses 5,000 10,250 4,725 7,760 9,030 Additions due to acquisitions 2,048 Charge offs: Real estate loans (1,634 ) (1,584 ) (189 ) (5,286 ) (4,730 ) Entertainment finance loans (2,500 ) (395 ) (2,180 ) (800 ) Franchise loans (451 ) (661 ) Commercial and other loans (1,121 ) (700 ) Total charge offs (4,134 ) (2,430 ) (3,490 ) (7,447 ) (4,730 ) Recoveries: Real estate loans 894 88 89 14 11 Entertainment finance loans 472 426 Commercial and other loans 758 65 Total recoveries 1,366 514 847 79 11 Net charge offs (2,768 ) (1,916 ) (2,643 ) (7,368 ) (4,719 ) Balance at end of the year $ 46,049 $ 43,817 $ 35,483 $ 33,401 $ 33,009 Average loans outstanding during the year $ 2,668,254 $ 2,239,261 $ 1,606,125 $ 1,415,812 $ 1,305,902 Loans, net, at end of the year (1) $ 3,019,417 $ 2,567,297 $ 1,829,298 $ 1,538,825 $ 1,471,243 Selected Ratios: Net charge offs to average loans outstanding 0.10 % 0.09 % 0.16 % 0.52 % 0.36 % Net charge offs to loans, net (1) 0.09 % 0.07 % 0.14 % 0.48 % 0.32 % Allowance for loan losses to loans, net (1) 1.53 % 1.71 % 1.94 % 2.14 % 2.31 % Allowance for loan losses to nonaccrual loans 175.40 % 180.59 % 242.17 % 392.26 % 555.61 % (1) Loans, before allowance for loan losses and net of premium, deferred loan origination costs and deferred loan fees. The allowance for loan losses increased to $46.0 million or 1.53% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2006 from $43.8 million or 1.71% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2005. The increase in the allowance was due primarily to the provision for loan losses of $5.0 million, less net charge offs of $2.8 million. The current period provision for loan losses was recorded to provide reserves adequate to support the known and inherent risk of loss in the loan portfolio, and for specific reserves required as of December 31, 2006. The decrease in the percentage of the allowance for loan losses to loans, net, primarily reflects the significant growth in our total loan portfolio during the year, which increased by 17.6% compared to the prior year, as well as the continuing decline in our overall risk profile due to a broader geographic diversification of our real estate loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2006, over 46% of our real estate loans were secured by properties located outside of the state of California compared to 41% in 2005. In addition, the overall level of our other loans of concern and non performing loans remained relatively stable during 2006 as compared to 2005. The allowance for loan losses increased to $43.8 million or 1.71% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2005 from $35.5 million or 1.94% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2004. The increase in the allowance was due primarily to the provision for loan losses of $10.3 million, less net charge offs of $1.9 million. The 2005 provision for loan losses was recorded to provide reserves adequate to support the known and inherent risk of loss in the loan portfolio, and for specific reserves required as of December 31, 2005. The increase in the provision for loan losses in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily caused by the growth in our loan portfolio and the increase in non performing and other loans of concern during the year. During 2005, our loan portfolio increased $738.0 million, non performing loans increased $9.6 million, and other loans of concern increased $29.3 million. Other loans of concern consist of performing loans which have known information that have caused management to be concerned about the borrowers ability to comply with present loan repayment terms. The decrease in the percentage of the allowance for loan losses to loans, net, primarily reflects the decline in our overall risk profile due to a broader geographic diversification of our real estate loan portfolio. 37 Table of Contents The following table sets forth managements historical allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan or contract category and the percentage of gross loans in each category to total gross loans at the dates indicated. December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Loan Category: Allowance for loan losses % of loans (1) Allowance for loan losses % of loans (1) Allowance for loan losses % of loans (1) Allowance for loan losses % of loans (1) Allowance for loan losses % of loans (1) (dollars in thousands) Secured by real estate $ 38,284 96 % $ 34,222 96 % $ 23,543 86 % $ 25,522 87 % $ 28,348 88 % Entertainment finance 5,616 3 % 6,770 3 % 7,828 5 % 4,354 6 % 2,961 8 % Franchise 1,833 2,685 1 % 4,032 8 % 3,185 7 % 1,490 4 % Commercial and other 316 1 % 140 80 1 % 340 210 Total $ 46,049 100 % $ 43,817 100 % $ 35,483 100 % $ 33,401 100 % $ 33,009 100 % (1) Percentage represents gross loans in category to total gross loans. Management believes the allowance for loan losses accounting policy is critical to the portrayal and understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. As such, selection and application of this critical accounting policy involves judgments, estimates, and uncertainties that are susceptible to change. In the event that different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, and depending upon the severity of such changes, the possibility of materially different financial condition or results of operations is a reasonable likelihood. Management periodically assesses the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses by reference to many quantitative and qualitative factors that may be weighted differently at various times depending on prevailing conditions. These factors include, among other elements: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; general portfolio trends relative to asset and portfolio size; asset categories; potential credit and geographic concentrations; delinquency trends and nonaccrual loan levels; historical loss experience and risks associated with changes in economic, social and business conditions; and the underwriting standards in effect when the loan was made. Accordingly, the calculation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is not based solely on the level of nonperforming assets. The quantitative factors, included above, are utilized by our management to identify two different risk groups (1) individual loans (loans with specifically identifiable risks); and (2) homogeneous loans (groups of loan with similar characteristics). We base the allocation for individual loans primarily on risk rating grades assigned to each of these loans as a result of our loan management and review processes. We then assign each risk rating grade a loss ratio, which is determined based on the experience of management and our independent loan review process. We estimate losses on impaired loans based on estimated cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate or based on the underlying collateral value. Based on managements experience, we also assign loss ratios to groups of loans. These loss ratios are assigned to the various homogenous categories of the portfolio. The qualitative factors, included above, are generally utilized to identify other risks inherent in the portfolio and to determine whether the estimated credit losses associated with the current portfolio might differ from historical loss trends. We estimate a range of exposure for each qualitative factor and evaluate the current condition and trend of each factor. Based on this evaluation, we assign a positive, negative or neutral grade to each factor to determine whether the portion of the qualitative reserve is in the high, middle or low end of the range for each factor. Because of the subjective nature of these factors and the judgments required to determine the estimated ranges, the actual losses incurred can vary significantly from the estimated amounts. Management believes that our allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2006 was adequate to absorb the known and inherent risks of loss in the loan portfolio at that date. While management believes the estimates and assumptions used in its determination of the adequacy of the allowance are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such estimates and assumptions will not be proven incorrect in the future, or that the actual amount of future provisions will not exceed the amount of past provisions or that any increased provisions that may be required will not adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the determination of the amount of the Banks allowance for loan losses is subject to review by bank regulators, as part of the routine examination process, which may result in the establishment of additional reserves based upon their judgment of information available to them at the time of their examination. 38 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the delinquency status of our loan portfolios at each of the dates indicated. December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Amount Percent of Gross Portfolio Amount Percent of Gross Portfolio Amount Percent of Gross Portfolio (dollars in thousands) Period of Delinquency 30 59 days $ 10,120 0.34 % $ 5,060 0.20 % $ 16,684 0.92 % 60 89 days 15,170 0.51 % 3,678 0.14 % 6,018 0.33 % 90 days or more 23,937 0.80 % 22,533 0.89 % 9,401 0.52 % Total loans delinquent $ 49,227 1.65 % $ 31,271 1.23 % $ 32,103 1.77 % The increase in total delinquent loans in 2006 was due primarily to an increase of $26.7 million of past due real estate loans, partially offset by a $6.6 million decrease in past due entertainment finance loans and a $2.2 million decrease in past due franchise loans. We have established a policy that all loans greater than $2.5 million are reviewed annually. This review usually involves obtaining updated information about the collateral and source of repayment. In addition, independent outside consultants periodically review our loan portfolio and report findings to management and the audit committee of the Board of Directors. Loans considered to warrant special attention are presented to the review and reserve committee, which meets at least monthly to review the status of classified loans, consider new classifications or declassifications, determine the need for and amount of any charge offs, and recommend to our executive committee of the Board of Directors the level of allowance for loan losses to be maintained. If management believes that the collection of the full amount of principal is unlikely and the value of the collateral securing the obligation is insufficient, the difference between the loan balance and the fair market value of the collateral are recognized by a partial charge off of the loan balance to the collaterals fair value. While real property collateral is held for sale, it is subject to periodic evaluation and or appraisal. If an evaluation or appraisal indicates that the property will ultimately sell for less than our recorded value plus costs of disposition, the loss is recognized by a charge to allowance for other real estate owned losses. Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days or more contractually delinquent, or earlier if the collection of interest is considered by management to be doubtful, unless the loan is considered well secured and in the process of collection. Subsequent cash collections on nonaccrual loans are either recognized as interest income on a cash basis, if the loan is well secured and in managements judgment the net book value is fully collectible, or recorded entirely as a reduction of principal. The following table sets forth our nonperforming assets by category and troubled debt restructurings as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) Nonaccrual loans:(1) Real estate $ 14,091 $ 6,117 $ 7,057 $ 4,686 $ 3,913 Franchise 4,549 7,366 3,874 799 1,986 Entertainment finance 7,614 10,780 3,721 3,030 Total nonaccrual loans 26,254 24,263 14,652 8,515 5,899 Other real estate owned, net 6,729 3,960 7,048 12,593 Total nonperforming assets 32,983 28,223 14,652 15,563 18,492 Accruing loans past due 90 days or more with respect to principal or interest Performing troubled debt restructurings 7,994 10,758 3,096 4,709 7,858 $ 40,977 $ 38,981 $ 17,748 $ 20,272 $ 26,350 Nonaccrual loans to total gross loans 0.88 % 0.95 % 0.80 % 0.55 % 0.40 % Allowance for loan losses to nonaccrual loans 175.40 % 180.59 % 242.17 % 392.26 % 555.61 % Nonperforming assets to total assets 0.97 % 0.92 % 0.63 % 0.86 % 1.08 % 39 Table of Contents (1) Includes five loans with a net book balance of $5.4 million that were nonperforming troubled debt restructurings in 2006, six loans with a net book balance of $8.5 million that were nonperforming troubled debt restructurings in 2005, four loans with a net book balance of $5.7 million that were nonperforming troubled debt restructurings in 2004, and three loans with a net book balance of $3.8 million that were nonperforming troubled debt restructurings in 2003. There were no nonperforming troubled debt restructurings in 2002. Gross interest income that would have been recorded on nonaccrual loans had they been current in accordance with original terms was $1.5 million and $1.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of interest income on such nonaccrual loans included in net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was none and $340,000, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, $1.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively, of gross interest income would have been recorded had the restructured loans been current in accordance with their original terms compared to $720,000 and $1.4 million, respectively, of interest income that was included in net income for the same periods. In 2006, $3.5 million of new other real estate owned was acquired, and $730,000 of other real estate owned was sold, resulting in $6.7 million of other real estate owned at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of $67.0 million and $66.4 million, respectively, with respect to which known information concerning possible credit problems with the borrowers or the cash flows of the properties securing the respective loans has caused management to be concerned about the ability of the borrowers to comply with present loan repayment terms, which may result in the future inclusion of such loans in the non accrual loan category. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We realize income principally from the differential or spread between the interest earned on loans, investments and other interest earning assets and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Loan volumes and yields, as well as the volume of and rates on investments, deposits and borrowings, are affected by market interest rates. Additionally, because of the terms and conditions of many of our loan agreements and deposit accounts, a change in interest rates could also affect the duration of the loan portfolio and or the deposit base, which could alter our sensitivity to future changes in interest rates. Interest rate risk management focuses on maintaining consistent growth in net interest income within board approved policy limits while taking into consideration, among other factors, our overall credit, operating income, operating cost and capital profile. The asset/liability management committee, which includes senior management representatives and reports to the Board of Directors, monitors and manages interest rate risk to maintain an acceptable level of change in net interest income as a result of changes in interest rates. See Item 1. Business Nonperforming Assets and Other Loans of Concern. In evaluating our exposure to changes in interest rates, certain risks inherent in the method of analysis presented in the following tables must be considered. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to repricing, they may react in different degrees and at different times to changes in market rates. Additionally, loan prepayments and early withdrawals of time certificates could cause interest sensitivities to vary from those that appear in the following table. Further, certain assets, such as adjustable rate real estate loans, have features that restrict changes in interest rates on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. The majority of our adjustable rate real estate loans may not adjust downward below their initial rate, with increases generally limited to maximum adjustments of 2% per year and up to 5% over the life of the loan. These loans may also be subject to prepayment penalties. At December 31, 2006, 3.2% of our adjustable rate loan portfolio could not adjust downward below the floor rate and the weighted average minimum interest rate for these loans was 8.56%. At December 31, 2006, 52.0% of the total loans outstanding had a lifetime interest rate cap, with a weighted average lifetime interest rate cap of 11.60%. The anticipated effects of these various factors are considered by management in implementing interest rate risk management activities. We use an internal earnings simulation model as a tool to identify and manage our interest rate risk profile. The model is based on projected cash flows and repricing characteristics for all financial instruments and incorporates market based assumptions regarding the impact of changing interest rates on current volumes of applicable financial instruments, considering applicable interest rate floors and caps and prepayment penalties associated with each financial instrument. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the model cannot precisely measure net interest income or precisely predict the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes as well as changes in market conditions and management strategies. 40 Table of Contents The following table shows our estimated earnings sensitivity profile to immediate, parallel shifts in interest rates as of December 31, 2006: Changes in Interest rates (Basis Points) Percentage Change in Net Interest Income (12 Months) + 200 Over One Year 0.61% + 100 Over One Year 1.53% 100 Over One Year 1.62% 200 Over One Year 2.03% Another tool used to identify and manage our interest rate risk profile is the static gap analysis. Interest sensitivity gap analysis measures the difference between the assets and liabilities repricing or maturing within specific time periods. The following table presents an estimate of our static GAP analysis as of December 31, 2006. Maturing or Repricing in 3 Months or less After 3 Months But Within 1 Year After 1 Year But Within 5 Years After 5 Years Non Interest Sensitive Total (dollars in thousands) Assets Loans (1) $ 1,184,139 $ 777,643 $ 1,028,047 $ 29,588 $ $ 3,019,417 Cash and cash equivalents 28,964 1,484 30,448 Investment securities available for sale 13,152 48,366 32,681 5,151 177 99,527 Investment securities held to maturity 7,243 29,125 130,782 26,362 193,512 Non interest earning assets less allowance for loan losses 72,606 72,606 Total assets $ 1,233,498 $ 855,134 $ 1,191,510 $ 61,101 $ 74,267 $ 3,415,510 Liabilities and Shareholders Equity Time certificates under $100,000 $ 251,006 $ 491,506 $ 42,220 $ $ $ 784,732 Time certificates $100,000 and more 373,451 521,001 122,291 1,016,743 Money market and passbook accounts 210,236 210,236 Demand deposit accounts 24,523 23,171 47,694 FHLB advances and other borrowings 215,497 219,268 531,165 44,070 1,010,000 Other liabilities 38,168 38,168 Junior subordinated debentures 25,800 30,900 29,900 86,600 Shareholders equity 221,337 221,337 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 1,100,513 $ 1,262,675 $ 695,676 $ 73,970 $ 282,676 $ 3,415,510 Net repricing assets over (under) repricing liabilities equals interest rate sensitivity GAP $ 132,985 $ (407,541 ) $ 495,834 $ (12,869 ) $ (208,409 ) Cumulative interest rate sensitivity GAP $ 132,985 $ (274,556 ) $ 221,278 $ 208,409 $ Cumulative GAP as a percentage of total assets 3.89 % 8.04 % 6.48 % 6.10 % 0.00 % (1) Approximately 51.3% of our loan portfolio was comprised of adjustable rate loans at December 31, 2006, and approximately 45.5% of the loan portfolio was comprised of hybrid loans, which become adjustable rate loans after an initial fixed rate period of three or five years. Our adjustable rate loans generally re price on a quarterly or semi annual basis with increases generally limited to maximum adjustments of 2% per year up to 5% for the life of the loan. Nonaccrual loans of approximately $26.3 million are assumed to reprice after five years. Certain shortcomings are inherent in a gap analysis. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods of repricing, they may react in different degrees to changes in market rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features that restrict changes in interest rates on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate significantly from those assumed in calculating the table. Finally, the ability of some borrowers to service their debt may decrease in the event of a severe interest rate increase. 41 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
