<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: SYS
CIK: 0000096057
SIC: 7372
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20070928
FILE DATE: 20070928
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements To the extent that the information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K discusses financial projections, information or expectations about our business plans, results of operations, products or markets, or otherwise makes statements about future events, such statements are forward looking. Such forward looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as intends, anticipates, believes, estimates, projects, forecasts, expects, plans and proposes. We believe that the expectations reflected in these forward looking statements are reasonable. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements and other forward looking statements made elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K as a result of specified factors, including those set forth in Item 1A Risk Factors. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview Revenues and profits for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 were significantly impacted by three major themes. First, our mix of revenues has changed as a result of products based revenues growing from 5% of revenues in 2006 to 8% in 2007 which has directly resulted in our overall gross margins growing from 20% in 2006 to 24% in 2007. Second, while our services based revenues have been impacted by both funding delays and program reductions, we have had year over year growth in our services business. Third, our operating costs and expenses have increased significantly because (i) selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of the acquisitions in April and October 2006 and the expansion of the sales and marketing efforts to support the Companys growth and (ii) we have made investments in research, engineering and development to further develop and expand our product offerings. Our business areas that encompass engineering and program management services have been in a continuous slow decline for the past five years while during this same period our C4ISR business has steadily grown. We anticipate that this trend of decreases in engineering and program management will continue as the DoD continues to implement their information transformation strategy focusing on enhanced information technology and communications systems, data acquisition and real time situational awareness. Our cost of revenues is affected by the mix of contract types (cost reimbursement, fixed price or time and materials) as well as the mix of prime contracts versus subcontracts and the mix of product sales revenue versus services revenue. Significant portions of our contracts are time and materials and cost reimbursement contracts. We are reimbursed for labor hours at negotiated hourly billing rates and other direct expenses under time and materials contracts and reimbursed for all actual costs, plus a fee, or profit, under cost reimbursement contracts. The financial risks under these contracts are generally lower than those associated with other types of contracts, and margins are also typically lower than those on fixed price contracts. The U.S. Government also has awarded us fixed price contracts. Such contracts carry higher financial risks because we must deliver the products, systems or contract services at a cost below the fixed contract value in order to earn a profit. The following table shows our revenues from each of these types of contracts as a percentage of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Cost reimbursement 78 % 77 % 70 % Time and materials 16 % 15 % 20 % Fixed price 6 % 8 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % The following table sets forth certain statements of operations data, including the amounts stated as a percentage of revenues, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (amounts in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 Revenues $ 75,798 $ 55,861 $ 45,769 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0% Cost of revenues 57,999 44,615 37,418 76.5 % 79.9 % 81.8% Selling, general and administrative expenses 15,428 8,463 4,866 20.4 % 15.2 % 10.6% Research, engineering and development expenses 4,037 3,578 691 5.3 % 6.4 % 1.5% Impairment charges 1,267 2.3 % Income (loss) from operations (1,666 ) (2,062 ) 2,794 (2.2 %) (3.7 %) 6.1% Other (income) expense, net 700 369 434 0.9 % 0.6 % 0.9% Income(loss) before income taxes (2,366 ) (2,431 ) 2,360 (3.1 %) (4.3 %) 5.2% Income tax (benefit) provision (673 ) (688 ) 953 (0.9 %) (1.2 %) 2.1% Net income (loss) $ (1,693 ) $ (1,743 ) $ 1,407 (2.2 %) (3.1 %) 3.1% Revenues by reportable business segments for years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (amounts in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 DSG $ 50,112 $ 45,176 $ 43,661 PSSIG 25,686 10,685 2,108 Total $ 75,798 $ 55,861 $ 45,769 Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2007 vs. Fiscal Year 2006 Revenues. Revenues increased by approximately $19.9 million or 35.7% during fiscal 2007. The increase included approximately $11.4 million from acquisitions, $1.1 million from products sales, and $11.6 million from increases in training, software engineering services and engineering and program management services which were partially offset by decreases of ($4.2) million in certain software development activities within our Net Centric programs. Acquisition related revenues were primarily attributable to the acquisition of Ai Metrix in fiscal 2007 and the acquisitions of WebTech, Logic, cVideo and RBIS, Ltd. in fiscal 2006. Effective July 1, 2006 certain business activities that were managed and reported under the DSG were moved into the PSSIG and are now managed and reported within that business group. The activities consisted principally of training related services and certain software services based contracts that are inter related with other activities in the PSSIG. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect the inclusion of these activities in the PSSIG. The growth in the DSG of $4.9 million is attributable to the acquisition of RBIS, Ltd., which added revenues of $5.7 million and increases of $3.4 million in revenues from training, software engineering services and engineering and program management services. These increases were partially offset by decreases of ($4.2) million in certain software development activities within our Net Centric programs. The growth in the PSSIG of $15.0 million is attributable to i) growth in training related services of $8.1 million due to a combination of expansion of existing customer business, new business opportunities, and cross selling opportunities within the SYS customer base, ii) $1.1 million increase in enterprise video product sales, and iii) $5.8 million increase from acquisitions of Ai Metrix, WebTech, cVideo and Logic Innovations. Costs of revenue. Costs of revenue for services includes all direct costs such as labor, materials and subcontractor costs. Costs of revenue for services also includes indirect overhead costs such as facilities, indirect labor, fringe benefits and other discretionary costs which are pooled and allocated to contracts on a pro rata basis. Generally, changes in direct costs for services are correlated to changes in revenue as resources are consumed in the production of that revenue. Costs of revenue for products includes the direct costs and manufacturing indirect expenses associated with manufacturing our products. As a percentage of revenue, costs of revenue were 76.5% and 79.9% for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, resulting in gross margins of 23.5% and 20.1%, respectively. The increase in gross margins was the direct result of increased product sales that carry a higher gross margin than do our services. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) include labor, fringe benefits, sales and marketing, bid and proposal (B&P) and other indirect costs. During 2007 SG&A expenses increased by approximately $7.0 million or 82.3% over the prior year. Increases in SG&A are attributable to the SG&A of the acquisitions in the current fiscal year and also continue to be driven by (i) increased spending for sales and marketing efforts of approximately $2.3 million, (ii) increased spending for our infrastructure support of approximately $1.6 million, (iii) increased amortization expense attributable to acquisitions of approximately $0.4 million, (iv) increased bad debt expense of approximately $0.3 million, (v) increased facility related expenses of approximately $1.0 million, and (vi) and an increase in all other expenses of approximately $1.4 million. Research, engineering and development expenses. Research, engineering and development (R&D) expenses include burdened labor and material costs to develop new products as well as maintaining and enhancing our existing product capabilities. R&D expenses increased $0.5 million or 12.8% over the prior year. The increase in these expenses is primarily attributable to research and development as well as sustaining engineering related to our enterprise video and network security and management product lines. Loss from operations. The Company incurred a loss from operations of ($1.7) million as compared to a loss from operations of ($2.1) million in the prior fiscal year. The prior year loss from operations included a $1.3 million impairment charge. Accordingly, the loss from operations increased from the prior year net of the impairment charge. This increase in loss from operations is primarily due to the increased spending for SG&A and R&D. Loss from operations includes share based compensation expense of approximately $0.4 million in fiscal 2007 and $0.5 million in fiscal 2006. These expenses include non cash expenses associated with stock options granted to employees, the employee stock purchase plan and, in fiscal 2006, non cash expenses related to an employee stock purchase agreement. The recognition of these share based compensation expenses is in accordance with SFAS No. 123R, which was adopted as of the beginning of the fiscal 2006. Other (income) expense. Other (income) expense includes interest expense on our outstanding convertible notes and borrowings made under our credit facility and interest and other income. Other expense was $0.7 million as compared to $0.4 million in the prior year. The increase in other expense is due primarily to a net increase in interest expense related to the issuance of approximately $3.1 million in convertible notes in February 2006 and interest on our term note issued in connection with the RBIS acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, partially offset by the decrease in interest expense resulting from the conversion of convertible notes during fiscal 2006 and 2007. Income tax benefit. The income tax benefit was ($0.7) million as compared to ($0.7) million in the prior year. Our effective tax rate was 28.4% as compared to 28.3% in the prior year. Our effective tax rate is directly affected by share based compensation expenses related to SFAS 123R, which are not deductible for tax purposes, but which are considered in estimating the annual effective tax rate. These factors can lead to large fluctuations in the estimated effective tax rate from quarter to quarter. Dividends. There were no dividends authorized or paid in 2007 or 2006. Fiscal Year 2006 vs. Fiscal Year 2005 Revenues. Revenues increased by approximately $10.1 million or 22% to $55.9 million during fiscal 2006. The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to the acquisitions of Antin, WebTech, Logic, cVideo and RBIS, which collectively accounted for $8.3 million of the revenue increase during the year. Additional increases of approximately $5.7 million were derived from support of C4ISR initiatives such as the FORCEnet Assessments and Decision Support Systems and Integrated Autonomous Network Management. These total increases of approximately $14.0 million were offset by a net $4.1 million reduction in revenues related to our engineering and program management services, all of which were due to planned decreases in activities by those customers and are consistent with managements expectations of the general trends in our business. As previously discussed, revenues related to programs previously captured in the DSG, where the activities were focused on public safety and security, have been included in the PSSIG to reflect the nature of the business being performed. The growth in the PSSIG operating segment is primarily attributable to growth from the recent acquisitions of Logic and cVideo which together added revenues of approximately $3.0 million in fiscal 2006 and growth in the following programs: (i) Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) Interoperable Communications Technology Assistance (ITP) focused on interoperable communications for public safety; (ii) the Joint Warning and Reporting Network (JWARN), a program that provides the military services near real time operational capabilities to collect, analyze and report nuclear, biological and chemical agent detections, identification, location and warning information; (iii) Composable FORCEnet used in various homeland security related scenarios including Hurricane Katrina relief efforts and other first responder situations. All of these programs have experienced growth in revenues over the prior year. Cost of revenues. Cost of revenues include all direct costs such as labor, materials and subcontractor costs. Costs of revenues also include indirect overhead costs such as facilities, indirect labor, fringe benefits and other discretionary costs which are pooled and allocated to contracts on a pro rata basis. Generally, changes in direct costs are correlated to changes in revenue as resources are consumed in the production of that revenue. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenues were 79.9% and 81.8%for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, resulting in gross margins of 20.1% and 18.2% for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Gross margins are affected by the mix of contract types as well as the mix of contracts in which we act as a prime contractor versus a subcontractor and are additionally affected by the mix of product sales revenue versus services revenue. During fiscal 2006, the percentage of cost plus fee type contracts, which usually carry lower risk and lower margins, increased 7%, offset by (i) the percentage of contracts in which we act as a prime contractor, which generally earn higher margins, which increased 4% during fiscal 2006 and (ii) increased product sales in fiscal 2006, which also generally earn higher gross margins than services revenue. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) include labor, fringe benefits, sales and marketing, bid and proposal (B&P) and other indirect costs. During fiscal 2006, SG&A increased by approximately $3.6 million or 74% over the prior year. These increases were primarily attributable to the following: (i) increased spending for our infrastructure support consisting principally of labor and fringe expenses of approximately $0.8 million to accommodate the increased scope of business operations from recent growth and acquisitions; (ii) increased spending for sales and marketing efforts consisting principally of labor and fringe expenses of approximately $0.7 million; (iii) increased amortization expense attributable to acquisitions of approximately $0.5 million; and (iv) increased audit, legal and other professional related expenses of approximately $0.3 million. Research, engineering and development expenses. Research, engineering and development (R&D) expenses include burdened labor and material costs to develop new products as well as maintaining and enhancing our existing product capabilities. R&D expenses for fiscal year 2006 were approximately $3.6 million as compared to approximately $0.7 million in the prior year. The increase in these expenses was partially attributable to a strategic decision at the beginning of the fiscal year regarding development and enhancing existing technology and also R&D expenses incurred as a result of the acquisition of Logic and cVideo. Impairment Charges. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 management made a decision to suspend efforts to sell or further develop technology associated with SensorWorX products, which are included in the operations of the PSSIG segment. As a result, we assessed the impact of this decision on our ability to recover the carrying value of our long lived assets in this segment and also considered the impact during our annual impairment analysis of goodwill. As a result of this assessment, we identified an impairment in the PSSIG segment of approximating $1.2 million of which, $0.5 million was a reduction of identified intangible assets, $0.6 million was a reduction to goodwill and $0.1 million was related to the write down of certain fixed assets. In addition, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million to write down the carrying value of the ForceViz software purchased in September 2005 based on an evaluation which indicated that future cash flows would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the asset. The total amount recorded for impairment during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 was approximately $1.3 million. In conjunction with managements decision to suspend efforts to sell products related to SensorWorX , we considered the recoverability of other assets related to the PSSIG segment and determined that an adjustment was necessary to reduce the carrying value of related inventory to the lower of cost or market, which resulted in a charge to cost of sales approximating $0.2 million in fiscal 2006. Income (loss) from operations. The Company incurred a loss from operations of ($2.1) million as compared to income from operations of $2.8 million in fiscal 2005. This decrease in income from operations is primarily due to the $1.3 million impairment charge discussed above, as well as increases in SG&A expenses, and R&D expenses noted above. Income (loss) from operations for fiscal 2006 includes total share based compensation expense of approximately $527,000, which included non cash expenses associated with stock options granted to employees and the employee stock purchase plan and additional shares issued to former Antin shareholders. The $527,000 was classified in the accompanying Statement of Operations in the category of cost applicable to the employee labor cost. The recognition of these share based compensation expenses is in accordance with SFAS 123R, which was adopted as of the beginning of the fiscal 2006. Other (income) expense. Other (income) expense decreased $65,000, or 15%, to $369,000. The decrease is due to a net increase in interest expense related to the issuance of approximately $3.1 million in convertible notes in February 2006, partially offset by the conversion of convertible notes during the fiscal year. The increase in interest expense was offset by increased interest income earned on the cash proceeds from the convertible notes and equity securities issued in February 2006 while the cash proceeds remained in interest bearing accounts prior to distribution. Income tax (benefit) provision. The income tax (benefit) provision for fiscal 2006 was ($688,000) versus $953,000 in fiscal 2005. The primary difference in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 versus fiscal 2005 relates to nondeductible share based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS 123R at the beginning of fiscal 2006. Dividends. There were no dividends authorized or paid in 2006 or 2005. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Historically, we have financed our operations and met our capital expenditure requirements through cash flows provided from operations, long term borrowings (including the sale of convertible notes), sales of equity securities and the use of our line of credit. The significant components of our working capital are liquid assets such as cash, trade accounts receivable, inventories and income taxes receivable, reduced by accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes payable, line of credit, the current portion of our term note, the current portion of our convertible notes payable, the current portion of our deferred tax liabilities and deferred revenue. Working capital was $8.2 million at June 30, 2007 compared to $7.3 million at June 30, 2006. Cash flows from operating activities. Cash flows from operating activities increased $3.0 million to $3.1 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2006 primarily as a result of changes in working capital. Cash flows from investing activities. Cash flows used in investing activities was ($0.7) million as compared to ($11.2) million in fiscal 2006. Cash paid for acquisitions decreased $10.5 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2006. Cash flows from financing activities. Cash flows from financing activities decreased $11.5 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2006. The decrease was primarily due to $6.0 million of proceeds related to the issuance of convertible notes and common stock issued in a private placement in 2006 and a decrease of $1.0 million in the proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of approximately $1.4 million in payments of notes payable and other borrowings and an increase of $2.8 million in the payments on the line of credit net of borrowings. As of June 30, 2007, we had convertible notes payable totaling $3.1 million which were from the private placement in February 2006. These notes mature in February 2009 and are convertible into shares of common stock at a rate of $3.60 per share. On December 31, 2006, approximately $1.5 million of outstanding convertible notes from a 2004 financing matured. Note holders converted approximately $1.1 million of the convertible notes into 511,380 shares of common stock at a conversion price of $2.20 per share and approximately $0.4 million was paid in cash. Approximately $0.4 million of outstanding convertible notes from the acquisition of Polexis in 2004 matured on March 31, 2007 and were paid in cash on March 30, 2007. These notes had a conversion price of $2.32 per share. Approximately $0.2 million for an outstanding convertible note from the acquisition of Antin in 2005 matured on May 11, 2007 and was paid in cash on May 11, 2007. This note had a conversion price of $2.32 per share. One of our regular sources of liquidity is our revolving line of credit facility with Comerica for $4.0 million, which expires on December 28, 2008. There was no outstanding balance on our revolving line of credit at June 30, 2007. The Companys $4.0 million revolving line of credit facility allows SYS to use (i) the full $4.0 million for working capital purposes or (ii) under a Sub Facility, up to $2.0 million of the credit facility for permitted acquisition purposes and $750,000 for minority investment purposes. The line of credit is subject to certain restrictions on permitted acquisitions and minority investments, and in some cases, we must receive the lenders consent prior to using the facility for such purposes. If used for permitted acquisitions or minority investments, these advances must be repaid over 48 months. During fiscal 2006, in connection with the purchase of RBIS, we utilized $1.0 million of this line for payment of a portion of the purchase consideration. In accordance with the terms of the credit facility, the $1.0 million was converted to a term note effective June 10, 2006. The term note is payable in monthly installments of $20,833 plus interest for fiscal years 2007 through 2010, with payments beginning October, 2006. In fiscal 2007, the Company elected to pre pay the $0.25 million current portion due during fiscal 2008. Accordingly, the balance of the term note as of June 30, 2007 was $0.5 million, all of which is classified as a non current liability. A total of $0.25 million of principal amounts of this note are due annually in fiscal years 2009 and 2010. The outstanding balance related to the Sub Facility reduces the maximum borrowings available under the line of credit. As a result, as of March 30, 2007, the maximum borrowing under the line of credit was $3.5 million and the remaining available borrowing capacity on the line of credit was approximately $3.5 million. On September 27, 2006, SYS and the lender agreed to amend the terms of the line of credit to eliminate the minimum quarterly net income covenant and the ratio of senior debt to EBITDA covenant and modify the tangible effective net worth covenant and cash flow coverage ratio covenant. We have the option of being charged prime plus 0.25% or LIBOR plus 300 basis points on the credit facility and prime plus 0.50% or LIBOR plus 325 basis points on the sub facility subject to minimum advance amounts and duration under the LIBOR option. The loan is collateralized by all of our assets including accounts receivable. Borrowings are limited to 80% of our billed accounts receivable that are less than 90 days old. Management believes that SYS will have sufficient cash flow from operations and funds available under the revolving credit agreement to finance its operating and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. Long term liquidity and continued acquisition related growth will depend on our ability to manage cash, raise cash through debt and equity financing transactions and regain profitability. We may seek to raise additional capital from time to time as market conditions permit and subject to Board approval. Our recent losses may impact our ability to raise capital. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently examining the Companys federal income tax return for the year ended June 30, 2004. The Company expects the IRS examination to be completed in fiscal 2008. The Company has reclassified an amount from deferred taxes to income taxes payable and accrued a provision for interest which it believes is adequate in relation to any potential adjustments. These amounts may be adjusted when there is more information available or an event occurs that indicates a change is required. Commitments (amounts in 000s) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Convertible notes (1) $ 3,633 $ 313 $ 3,320 $ $ $ $ Note payable (1) 588 44 283 261 Operating leases 4,726 1,995 1,351 545 460 350 25 Total $ 8,947 $ 2,352 $ 4,954 $ 806 $ 460 $ 350 $ 25 (1) Includes principal and interest Off Balance Sheet Arrangements SYS does not have any off balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. In addition, SYS has not entered into any derivative contracts. Critical Accounting Policies We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition. The majority of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government that are typically cost plus fee, time and material and fixed price contracts. Revenue on these contracts results from work performed on these contracts by the Companys employees and subcontractors and from pass through of costs for materials. Revenue on cost plus fee and fixed price contracts is recorded as contractually allowable costs are incurred and fees earned. Revenue for time and material contracts is recorded on the basis of contractually allowable labor and subcontractor hours worked times the contract defined billing rates plus the cost of material used in the performance on the contract. Revenue from service type fixed price contracts is recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate output methods to measure service provided, and contract costs are expensed as incurred. In general, SYS does not recognize revenues in excess of the allowable funding limitations on any delivery order or contract until negotiations are finalized. On occasion, our customers request that we proceed on a tasking in advance of the formal contract modification. We evaluate these requests according to their characteristics and the circumstances in which they occur after taking all factors into consideration such as probability of cost recovery, our experience with the customer, and satisfactory evidence that supports the customers intent to issue the modification. In these circumstances, if revenue recognition criteria are met, we only record revenue equal to costs incurred until such time as contract modifications are finalized. If our assessment for the probability of cost recovery changes in a subsequent period due to a change in circumstances then the revenues associated with those costs incurred may be reversed. Contract costs, including indirect costs, on certain U.S. Government contracts are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (the DCAA) before final billing and collection of receivables. Revenues have been recorded at amounts expected to be realized upon final settlement. Anticipated contract losses are recognized in the period in which they are identified. The Company also recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware, hardware products which include software that is more than incidental, hardware and software maintenance agreements, and Application Service Provider (ASP) services. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been provided, the sale price is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is generally recognized upon shipment, or once all applicable criteria have been met in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No 104 (SAB 104). Allowances are provided for estimated returns and discounts. Such allowances are adjusted periodically to reflect actual and anticipated experience. Revenue from maintenance and ASP services are recognized ratably over the service term, which is typically one or two years. The unrecognized revenue portion of maintenance agreements billed is recorded as deferred revenue. Certain agreements include multiple deliverables or elements for products, software and or services. Accordingly, the Company separates its deliverables into units of accounting in accordance with the provisions of Emerging Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. In the absence of fair value for an undelivered element, the arrangement is accounted for as a single unit of accounting, resulting in a deferral of revenue recognition for the delivered elements until the undelivered elements are fulfilled. Revenue on software products and software related elements are recognized, in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition (SOP 97 2). For arrangements that include both hardware products and software products, the Company evaluates the arrangement based on EITF 03 5, Applicability of AICPA Statement of Position 97 2 to Non Software Deliverables in an Arrangement Containing More Than Incidental Software. In accordance with the provisions of EITF 03 5, the arrangement is divided between software related elements and non software deliverables. Software related elements are accounted for in accordance with SOP 97 2. When software arrangements contain multiple elements and vendor specific objective evidence of fair value exists for all undelivered elements, the Company accounts for the delivered elements in accordance with the residual method as prescribed by SOP No. 98 9. Otherwise, revenue is deferred and recognized in accordance with SOP 97 2. Indirect Expense Rate Variance. SYS applies overhead and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of direct contract costs based on annual budgeted indirect expense rates. To the extent actual expenses for an interim period are greater than the budgeted rates, the variance is deferred if management believes it is probable that the variance will be absorbed by future contract activity. This probability assessment includes projecting whether future indirect costs will be sufficiently less than the annual budgeted rates or can be absorbed by seeking increased billing rates applied on cost plus fee contracts. At the end of each interim reporting period, management assesses the recoverability of any amount deferred to determine if any portion should be charged to expense. In assessing the recoverability of variances deferred, management takes into consideration estimates of the amount of direct labor and other direct costs to be incurred in future interim periods, the feasibility of modifications for provisional billing rates, and the likelihood that an approved increase in provisional billing rates can be passed along to a customer. Variances are charged to expense in the periods in which it is determined that such amounts are not probable of recovery. At the end of the fiscal year, indirect rates are applied using actual costs incurred. Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts. Our accounts receivable balances include unbilled receivables which are comprised of work in process which will be billed in accordance with contract terms and delivery schedules, as well as amounts billable upon final DCAA audit of our overhead rates, contract completion, milestones or completion of rate negotiations. Payments to us for performance on certain of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to audit by the DCAA, and are subject to government funding. We provide an allowance against our receivables for estimated losses that may result from rate negotiations and audit adjustments. To the extent that actual adjustments due to rate negotiations or audit adjustments differ from our estimates, our revenue may be impacted. Historically, SYS has not required significant allowances for these risks. Since our primary customer is the U.S. Government, SYS historically has not recorded significant charges for bad debt expense. Bad debt charges, if needed, are recognized in the period in which they are identified. Income taxes and tax contingencies. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements we are required to estimate our provision for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we conduct business. This process involves estimating our actual current tax expense in conjunction with the evaluation and measurement of temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These temporary differences result in the establishment of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are recorded on a net basis and included in our consolidated balance sheet. We then assess on a periodic basis the probability that our net deferred tax assets will be recovered and, therefore realized from future taxable income and to the extent we believe that recovery is not more likely than not, a valuation allowance is established to address such risk resulting in an additional related provision for income taxes during the period. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, tax contingencies and any required valuation allowance, including taking into consideration the probability of the tax contingencies being incurred. Management assesses this probability based upon information provided to us by our tax advisors, our legal advisors and similar tax cases. If at a later time our assessment of the probability of these tax contingencies changes, our accrual for such tax uncertainties may increase or decrease. We have a valuation allowance at June 30, 2007 due to managements overall assessment of risks and uncertainties related to our future ability to realize and, hence, utilize certain the deferred tax asset related to net operating loss carryforwards. This valuation allowance was established as part of the purchase price allocation of Ai Metrix, acquired in October 2006. Valuation and Impairment Review of Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long Lived Assets. We account for our purchases of acquired companies in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141") and account for the related acquired intangible assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). In accordance with SFAS 141, we allocate the cost of the acquired companies to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired, with the remaining amount being classified as goodwill. Certain intangible assets, such as acquired technology, are amortized to expense over time, while in process research and development, if any, is recorded as an expense at the acquisition date. The majority of the entities acquired by us do not have significant tangible assets and, as a result, a significant portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to intangible assets and goodwill. Our intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using a method that best reflects how their economic benefits are utilized or, if a pattern of economic benefits cannot be reliably determined, on a straight line basis over their useful lives of one to fifteen years. We evaluate all of our long lived assets (primarily property and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill) for impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144). SFAS 144 requires that long lived assets and intangible assets other than goodwill be evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. In accordance with SFAS 144, when a long lived asset or intangible asset is abandoned or is determined to be impaired, the carrying value or amount of impairment is charged to expense in the period of abandonment or the period the impairment is identified. Goodwill and Intangibles. Goodwill, which is equal to the excess of cost over the fair value of acquired net assets and identifiable intangible assets, has been recorded in conjunction with several of the Companys business combinations, is assessed for impairment under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS 142, the goodwill impairment test is a two step process. The first step consists of estimating the fair values of each of the reporting units based on a discounted cash flow model using revenue and profit forecasts and comparing those estimated fair values with the carrying values, which includes the allocated goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment by determining an implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is the residual fair value derived by deducting the fair value of a reporting units assets and liabilities from its estimated fair value calculated in step one. The impairment charge represents the excess of the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill over the implied fair value of their goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires goodwill to be tested annually at the same time every year and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. The Company tests goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter and whenever indications of an impairment are identified. Software development costs. Capitalization of material software development costs begins when a products technological feasibility has been established in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed (SFAS 86). To date, there has been only a short time period between achieving technological feasibility, which the Company has defined as the establishment of a working model, which typically occurs when beta testing commences, and the general availability of such software. Consequently, other than the costs related to software purchased from third parties that the Company offers for sale to its customers, the Company has not capitalized any software development costs under the provisions of SFAS 86. Research and Development. The Company expenses all applicable research and development costs as incurred. Share Based Compensation: As of July 1, 2005 we account for our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP), stock plans and other forms of share based compensation under the provisions of SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires the recognition of the fair value of share based compensation in net income. The fair value of our share based compensation was estimated using a Black Scholes option valuation model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. The fair value of share based awards is amortized over the vesting period of the award and we have elected to use the straight line method for awards granted after the adoption of SFAS 123R and continue to use a graded vesting method for awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we accounted for our share based compensation under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25 Accounting For Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25) and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25 and made pro forma footnote disclosures as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 148, Accounting For Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, which amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting For Stock Based Compensation. New Accounting Standards In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on the derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. The accounting provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2006 and will be adopted by the Company on July 1, 2007. The Company has not completed its evaluation of the impact of adopting FIN 48 and as a result is not able to estimate the effect the adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations, including its ability to comply with current debt covenants. In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 proscribes a single definition of fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The accounting provisions of SFAS 157 will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2008. The Company is in the process of determining the impact of this statement on its consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 (SAB 108). SAB 108 addresses how the effects of prior year uncorrected misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB 108 requires companies to quantify misstatements using a balance sheet and income statement approach and to evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying an error that is material in light of relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. When the effect of initial adoption is material, companies will record the effect as a cumulative effect adjustment to beginning of year retained earnings. SAB 108 was effective for the Company as of June 30, 2007 and the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its results of operations or its financial condition. In February, 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. SFAS 159 will be effective for the Company beginning July 1, 2008. The Company is in the process of determining the impact of this statement on its consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment income and interest expense. As of June 30, 2007 our cash was primarily invested in a money market interest bearing account. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the average interest rate on our money market cash investments would have had no material effect on net income for the year ended June 30, 2007. We currently do not utilize any derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks. We have interest rate risk in that borrowings under our line of credit and term note are based on variable market interest rates. As of June 30, 2007, we had no variable rate debt outstanding under our credit facility and $0.5 million outstanding under a term note. Presently, the revolving credit line bears interest at a rate of prime plus 0.25% and the term note bears interest at a rate of prime plus 0.50%. A hypothetical 10% increase in the weighted average interest rate of 8.61% per annum on our combined line of credit and term note would have decreased our operating cash flows for the year ended June 30, 2007 by approximately $0.02 million. Our privately issued convertible notes have fixed interest rates of 10%, but have exposure to changes in the debts fair value. We believe that the fair value of our total outstanding convertible notes is approximately $3.2 million (book value of $3.2 million). 
</SECTION>
