<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: CORAUTUS GENETICS INC
CIK: 0001003929
SIC: 2836
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070330
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements that are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties including those set forth under Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. The statements that are not purely historical are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including without limitation statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. All forward looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements. See the section at the beginning of this report titled Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results. Introduction Corautus is a development stage company dedicated to the development of innovative products in the life sciences industry. Corautus, formerly known as GenStar Therapeutics Corporation and Urogen Corp., was formed as a Delaware corporation on June 30, 1995. Prior to November 1, 2006, Corautus was primarily focused on the clinical development of gene therapy products using a vascular growth factor gene, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor 2 (VEGF 2), for the treatment of severe cardiovascular disease. Corautus was the sponsor of a Phase IIb clinical trial to study the efficacy of VEGF 2 for the treatment of severe cardiovascular disease, known as the GENASIS trial. In addition, Corautus supported initial clinical trials studying the efficacy of VEGF 2 for the treatment of peripheral artery disease and diabetic neuropathy. Our gene therapy treatment approach was based upon the research of the late Dr. Jeffrey Isner, former Chief of Vascular Medicine and Cardiovascular Research at Caritas St. Elizabeths Medical Center of Boston, Inc. Our VEGF 2 product candidates were designed to induce therapeutic angiogenesis, which is the stimulation of blood vessel formation, to restore blood flow to ischemic, or oxygen deprived, muscle caused by cardiovascular or peripheral vascular disease. In this way, we sought to treat a cause of the underlying condition rather than the symptoms of the disease. Our approach to therapeutic angiogenesis involved the injection of naked plasmid DNA, or DNA that is formulated without modifying materials such as liposomes or pegylation, directly into the ischemic muscle. We enrolled 30 Class III and Class IV angina patients in our Phase I clinical trial. From our investigators published data, a significant improvement in angina class was noted at the two year follow up; no patients evaluated as having Class IV angina; only three were evaluated as having Class III angina; and the remaining were evaluated as having Class I or II angina. Our 19 patient Phase I/IIa trial was a multicenter, randomized study testing VEGF 2 in two dosages (200 and 800 microgram) plus a placebo. The investigators reported a significant improvement in symptoms of angina, including an average increase in exercise tolerance time of almost two minutes in the VEGF 2 treated patients, a reduction of angina class, and a reduction in frequency of angina episodes in the VEGF 2 treated patients compared to the placebo patients. We initiated the GENASIS trial on August 31, 2004. GENASIS was a multicenter, randomized, four arm, double blind study of up to 404 patients in approximately 30 institutions in the United States evaluating the efficacy and safety of three doses (20, 200, 800 micrograms) of VEGF 2 versus placebo 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements percutaneously delivered via the Stiletto catheter. Prior to cessation, 295 patients were treated in the GENASIS clinical trial. The primary endpoint of the GENASIS trial was the improvement in exercise tolerance time on a treadmill 90 days following patient treatment, with additional follow up at 6 and 12 months. On March 14, 2006, we announced that in conjunction with Boston Scientific Corporation, we had temporarily suspended patient treatments in our GENASIS clinical trial. Boston Scientific requested the voluntary suspension as a result of three reported serious adverse events of pericardial effusion, which did not appear to be related to the VEGF 2 biologic. We notified the FDA of the voluntary suspension prior to making the public announcement, and in a subsequent teleconference, we were informed that the FDA had placed the trial on clinical hold. As part of the process to address the clinical hold, the independent Data Monitoring Committee, or DMC, reviewed safety information. To better consider safety in the context of risk/benefit in this trial, the DMC also requested and subsequently reviewed a limited amount of available unblinded summary efficacy data related to the increase in exercise tolerance time, or ETT, which is measured by a patients performance on a treadmill. The DMC recommended to us that, based on available efficacy data, enrollment should be terminated under the current protocol as the DMC saw very little chance for significant efficacy as to the primary endpoint. On April 10, 2006, we announced that we had accepted the DMCs recommendation that enrollment in the GENASIS trial be terminated and notified the FDA of the termination of enrollment. Corautus locked the database on August 14, 2006 for the 295 patients treated in the GENASIS clinical trial. The efficacy and safety analyses performed on the database included 295 patients at 3 months, 241 patients at 6 months and 103 patients at 12 months. On October 10, 2006 Corautus announced that the final efficacy results from its GENASIS clinical trial did not achieve a statistically significant difference from placebo in any active dose group for the primary efficacy endpoint. The primary efficacy endpoint in the GENASIS clinical trial was an improvement of at least one minute in ETT from baseline to three months. The data indicated considerable overlap in results between the active and placebo groups for the secondary endpoints as well, and no clear dose effect was seen. In general, a majority of patients in all treatment arms (active and placebo) significantly improved from their baseline status in both primary and secondary efficacy endpoints; however, there was no significant separation from the placebo in any active dose group. On October 30, 2006, our board of directors determined that it was in the best interests of the company and its stockholders to not conduct further clinical trials for VEGF 2 for the treatment of cardiovascular and peripheral vascular disease. The board of directors authorized management to immediately reduce its cash spending and to continue identifying other life sciences technologies that it could acquire or in license, or other life sciences opportunities. We have been actively seeking new product opportunities, as well as a merger or business combination, due to the refocus of our business away from our VEGF 2 product candidates. On February 7, 2007, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with VIA Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation that currently is privately held, and our wholly owned subsidiary, Resurgens Merger Corp. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Resurgens will merge with and into VIA, with VIA surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Corautus. In exchange for their VIA capital stock, VIA stockholders will receive shares of Corautus common stock. Currently, we expect that former VIA stockholders will hold approximately 78% of our common stock post transaction. Additionally, if the transaction with VIA is consummated, Corautus clinical operations will focus on VIAs product candidates. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accrued liabilities and stock based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements (see Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements). Revenue Recognition Grant revenue is recognized as the research expenses related to the grants are incurred. Contract revenue arising from collaborative research agreements is recognized either (i) ratably over the term of the agreement, which approximates the performance of services, for contracts specifying payment for services over a given period, or (ii) as services are performed under the agreement, for contracts specifying payment on a per full time employee basis. All amounts received under collaborative research agreements or research grants are not refundable, regardless of the success of the underlying research. Accrued Liabilities The Company estimates expenses related to costs that have been incurred, but have not yet been billed. This process involves identifying services and activities that have been performed by third party vendors on our behalf and estimating the level to which they have been performed and the associated cost incurred for such service as of each balance sheet date. These costs include fees for professional services, such as those provided by certain clinical research organizations and investigators in conjunction with clinical trials, and fees owed to contract manufacturers in conjunction with the manufacture of material for planned clinical trials and commercial use. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (SFAS 123(R)) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock based awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options and employee stock purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) based on estimated fair values. SFAS 123(R) requires companies to estimate the fair value of stock based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements which requires the application of the accounting standard starting from January 1, 2006. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for stock based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and under this method, no stock based compensation expense for employee stock options was recognized in the prior periods in our Consolidated Statements of Operations because the exercise price of our stock options granted to employees and directors equaled the fair market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method we used in adopting SFAS 123(R), our results of operations prior to fiscal year 2006 have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). The value of options, warrants, or stock awards issued to non employees have been determined in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 96 18, Accounting for Equity Instruments that are Issued to Other than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling Goods and Services, and are periodically remeasured as the options vest, if required. Warrants for common stock are initially valued at the date of issuance and are recorded to the expense category related to the services provided. Use of Estimates The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Results of Operations Revenues Total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $83,000 for each year. These revenues were from the sublicense of certain patents to Boston Scientific Corporation as part of Boston Scientifics investment in Corautus. Product revenues are contingent on, among other matters, the success of our product candidates in clinical trials, and currently we do not have any product candidates. Therefore, we do not anticipate revenues from product sales unless we acquire product candidates. Research and Development and Acquired In Process Technology Research and development expenses decreased $6.3 million to $9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to approximately $15.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Research and development expenses increased $9.3 million to $15.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to approximately $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in research and development expense in 2006 from 2005 was primarily caused by the termination in 2006 of our GENASIS Phase IIb clinical trial that began in Fall of 2004, including reduction in costs for patient treatment costs and clinical research organization costs and by costs incurred under the manufacturing agreement in developing processes and procedures for the intended production of our clinical material for planned Phase III clinical trial and commercial use, which will no longer occur. Also included in 2006 were severance expenses associated with the reduction in workforce of research and development personnel of approximately $582,000 and non cash stock based compensation expense of approximately $200,000. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The increase in research and development expense in 2005 over 2004 was primarily caused by our GENASIS Phase IIb clinical trial that began in Fall of 2004, including patient treatment costs and clinical research organization costs and by costs incurred under the manufacturing agreement in developing processes and procedures for the intended production of our clinical material for planned Phase III clinical trial and commercial use. We currently do not have any products in clinical testing, nor do we have any plans to initiate clinical trials outside of continuing VIAs clinical trials if the merger is consummated. We estimate that it will take many years to complete clinical testing of any products and obtain regulatory approvals, if we are to initiate clinical trials and are able to obtain approvals. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase in the event we conduct clinical testing in the future. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 to approximately $6.2 million compared to approximately $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. General and administrative expenses increased $216,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to approximately $3.9 million compared to approximately $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. General and administrative expenses include the costs of our administrative personnel and consultants, office lease expenses and other overhead costs, including legal and accounting costs. The increase in general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 relates primarily to costs associated with our planned common stock offering in March 2006, which was terminated due to the suspension of enrollment in our GENASIS clinical trial, in addition to non cash stock based compensation costs and severance expenses relating to the reduction in workforce in the fourth quarter of 2006. The terminated offering costs primarily consisted of legal, accounting, printing, filing fees, and travel totaling approximately $695,000. We recorded non cash stock based compensation costs of $994,000 in 2006 and none in 2005. Severance expense in the fourth quarter of 2006 for general and administrative personnel was approximately $811,000. The increase in general and administrative expense in 2005 over 2004 relates primarily to increases in personnel costs. Write off of Property and Equipment The write off of property and equipment of approximately $93,000 in 2006 is related to the write down and disposal of certain office furniture and equipment and lab equipment subsequent to our board of directors decision to pursue other life sciences opportunities, and the relocation to smaller office space. Interest Income and Expense Interest income increased $162,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006 to approximately $977,000 compared to approximately $815,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income increased $564,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to approximately $815,000 compared to approximately $251,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income is a result of investment of excess cash in auction rate securities, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit. The increase in interest income is due to increases in the balances in those investments and in the investment yield. Interest expense decreased $333,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006 to approximately $498,000 compared to approximately $831,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest expense increased 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements $379,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to approximately $831,000 compared to approximately $452,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest expense in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to Boston Scientific Corporations exchange of all of its Promissory Notes, with an aggregate principal amount of $15.0 million, together with accrued interest of $1.6 million on June 30, 2006, for 2.5 million shares of the Companys Series E Preferred Stock. The increase in interest expense in 2005 over 2004 is due to the timing of issuance of the notes payable partially offset by lower interest on capital lease obligations. Series E Preferred Stock Dividend On June 30, 2006, the Company entered into a Recapitalization Agreement with Boston Scientific Corporation, pursuant to which Boston Scientific exchanged all of its Promissory Notes, with an aggregate principal amount of $15,000,000, together with accrued interest of $1,608,103 through June 30, 2006, for 2,475,659 shares of the Companys Series E Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $6.71 per share and is entitled to a cumulative annual dividend of 6%. The Series E Preferred Stock is convertible into 2,475,659 shares of Corautus common stock, subject to adjustment, and votes with the common stock. The agreement was executed and closed on June 30, 2006. The dividends on the Series E Preferred Stock, $498,350 as of December 31, 2006, are payable upon declaration by the board of directors on January 1 and July 1 of each year and are payable in additional shares of Series E Preferred Stock until January 1, 2009, when such dividends will be payable in cash from then forward. The Companys board of directors has not declared any dividends on the Series E Preferred Stock as of December 31, 2006. The Series E Preferred Stock dividends represent an increase in net loss available to common stockholders. Liquidity and Capital Resources From inception through December 31, 2006, we have primarily financed our operations through private placements of equity and convertible debt securities, our strategic alliance with Boston Scientific Corporation and through our partnership with Baxter Healthcare. We have raised approximately $16.4 million in convertible debt offerings (including $15.0 million from Boston Scientific Corporation), $55.5 million in private equity financings, $16.0 million in net proceeds from the Boston Scientific Corporation investment in our common and preferred stock and received equity funding of $14.9 million related to our relationship with Baxter Healthcare. Net cash used by operating activities in 2006 was approximately $15.4 million and primarily consists of expenditures for research and development and general and administrative expenses. Net cash provided by investing activities of $15.3 million during 2006 consists of sales of short term investments, purchases of short term investments and the purchase of property and equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities of $400,000 during 2006 consists primarily of proceeds from the exercise of warrants and interest payable on convertible debt, offset by repayments of capital leases. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments totaling approximately $16.0 million. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash and have generated insignificant revenues. The negative cash flow from operations is expected to continue. The development of any products will require a commitment of substantial funds to conduct the costly and time consuming research, preclinical and clinical testing necessary to bring our products to market and to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including the progress of our research and development programs; the progress, scope and results of our preclinical and clinical testing; the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; the 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements cost of manufacturing for our proposed products; the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; competing technological and market developments; and our ability to establish and maintain collaborative and other arrangements with third parties, such as licensing and manufacturing agreements, and the cost of such arrangements. We will be seeking this additional funding either through collaborative arrangements or through public or private equity or debt financings. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We do not have any commitments or arrangements assuring us of any additional funds in the future, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. Failure to successfully address ongoing liquidity requirements will have a material adverse effect upon our business. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will be required to take actions that will harm our business and our ability to achieve cash flow in the future. To the extent we raise additional cash by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders will be diluted. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities are likely to have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock and preferred stock. Contractual Obligations The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006: Payments due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 13 years 35 years More than 5 years Capital lease $ 2,000 $ 2,000 $ $ $ Operating lease 21,000 21,000 Total $ 23,000 $ 23,000 $ $ $ New Accounting Pronouncements In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections (SFAS 154), which replaces Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and SFAS 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statement, and changes the requirements for the accounting for and the reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154, which became effective for all accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, had no effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments (SFAS 155), which amends SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, aimed at improving the financial reporting of certain hybrid financial instruments by requiring more consistent accounting that eliminates exemptions and provides a means to simplify the accounting for these instruments. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. The Company does not expect that the adoption of SFAS 155 will have any impact on its financial position and results of operations. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), which clarifies when tax benefits should be recorded in financial statements, requires certain disclosures of uncertain tax matters and indicates how any tax reserves should be classified in a balance sheet. The Company has not determined the impact, if any, the adoption of FIN 48, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, will have on its financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It also responds to investors requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value, and does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and is required to be adopted by the Company in its first quarter of fiscal 2008. The Company has not determined the impact, if any, the adoption of SFAS 157 will have on its financial position and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities that we invest in may have market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the market value of our investment will probably decline. To minimize this risk in the future, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short term investments in a variety of securities, including auction rate securities, commercial paper, money market funds, government and non government debt securities and certificates of deposit. The average duration of the majority of our investments in 2006 and 2005 was less than two months. Due to the short term nature of these investments, we believe that we have no material exposure to interest rates arising from our investments. Therefore, no quantitative tabular disclosure is included in this report. 
</SECTION>
