<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: PERFORMANCE TECHNOLOGIES INC \DE\
CIK: 0001003950
SIC: 3672
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The Companys annual operating performance is subject to various risks and uncertainties. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, included elsewhere herein, as well as the risk factors described in ITEM 1A of this Form 10 K. The Companys future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors, which are beyond the Companys control. These include, among other factors, general business and economic conditions, rapid technological changes accompanied by frequent new product introductions, competitive pressures, dependence on key customers, the attainment of design wins and obtaining orders as a result, fluctuations in quarterly and annual results, the reliance on a limited number of third party suppliers, limitations of the Companys manufacturing capacity and arrangements, the protection of the Companys proprietary technology, the dependence on key personnel, changes in critical accounting estimates, potential impairments related to goodwill, investments and foreign regulations. In addition, during weak and uncertain economic periods, customer visibility deteriorates causing delays in the placement of orders. These factors often result in a substantial portion of the Companys revenue being derived from orders placed within a quarter and shipped in the final month of the same quarter. Matters discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, include forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, estimates and assumptions are required to be made that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information disclosures, including information about contingencies, risk and financial condition. It is believed that given the current facts and circumstances, these estimates and assumptions are reasonable, adhere to GAAP, and are consistently applied. Inherent in the nature of an estimate or assumption is the fact that actual results may differ from estimates, and estimates may vary as new facts and circumstances arise. The critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates that we believe have the most significant effect on our financial statements are set forth below: o Revenue Recognition o Software Development Costs o Valuation of Inventories o Income Taxes o Product Warranty o Carrying Value of Goodwill o Stock Based Compensation o Restructuring Costs Revenue Recognition: Revenue is recognized from product sales in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition." Product sales represent the majority of our revenue and include both hardware products and hardware products with embedded software. Revenue is recognized from these product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been provided, the sale price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Additionally, products are sold on terms which transfer title and risk of loss at a specified location, typically the shipping point. Accordingly, revenue recognition from product sales occurs when all factors are met, including transfer of title and risk of loss, which typically occurs upon shipment. If these conditions are not met, revenue recognition is deferred until such time as these conditions have been satisfied. Revenue earned from arrangements for software is accounted for under the provisions of Statement of Position 97 2, "Software Revenue Recognition." For the sale of multiple element arrangements whereby equipment is combined with other elements, such as software and maintenance, the Company allocates to, and recognizes revenue from, the various elements based on their fair value. Revenue from software requiring significant production, modification, or customization is recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Any anticipated losses on contracts are charged to operations as soon as such losses are determined. If all conditions of revenue recognition are not met, revenue recognition is deferred and revenue will be recognized when all obligations under the arrangement are fulfilled. Revenue from software maintenance contracts is recognized ratably over the contractual period. Revenue from consulting and other services is recognized at the time the services are rendered. Certain products are sold through distributors who are granted limited rights of return. Potential returns are accounted for at the time of sale. The accounting estimate related to revenue recognition is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because terms of sale can vary, and judgment is exercised in determining whether to defer revenue recognition. Such judgments may materially affect net sales for any period. Judgment is exercised within the parameters of GAAP in determining when contractual obligations are met, title and risk of loss are transferred, sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Development Costs: All software development costs incurred in establishing the technological feasibility of computer software products to be sold are research and development costs. Software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility of a computer software product to be sold and prior to general release of that product are capitalized. Amounts capitalized are amortized commencing after general release of that product over the estimated remaining economic life of that product, generally three years, or using the ratio of current revenues to current and anticipated revenues from such product, whichever provides greater amortization. If the technological feasibility for a particular project is judged not to have been met or recoverability of amounts capitalized is in doubt, project costs are expensed as research and development or charged to cost of goods sold, as applicable. The accounting estimate related to software development costs is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because judgment is exercised in determining whether project costs are expensed as research and development or capitalized as an asset. Such judgments may materially affect expense amounts for any period. Judgment is exercised within the parameters of GAAP in determining when technological feasibility has been met and recoverability of software development costs is reasonably assured. Valuation of Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, using the first in, first out method. Inventory includes purchased parts and components, work in process and finished goods. Provisions for excess, obsolete or slow moving inventory are recorded after periodic evaluation of historical sales, current economic trends, forecasted sales, estimated product lifecycles and estimated inventory levels. Purchasing practices, electronic component obsolescence, accuracy of sales and production forecasts, introduction of new products, product lifecycles, product support and foreign regulations governing hazardous materials are the factors that contribute to inventory valuation risks. Exposure to inventory valuation risks is managed by maintaining safety stocks, minimum purchase lots, managing product end of life issues brought on by aging components or new product introductions, and by utilizing certain inventory minimization strategies such as vendor managed inventories. The accounting estimate related to valuation of inventories is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because it is susceptible to changes from period to period due to the requirement for management to make estimates relative to each of the underlying factors, ranging from purchasing, to sales, to production, to after sale support. If actual demand, market conditions or product lifecycles differ from estimates, inventory adjustments to lower market values would result in a reduction to the carrying value of inventory, an increase in inventory write offs and a decrease to gross margins. Income Taxes: Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability approach, which requires recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of the temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of such assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The accounting estimate related to income taxes is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because judgment is exercised in estimating future taxable income, including prudent and feasible tax planning strategies, and in assessing the need for any valuation allowance. If it should be determined that all or part of a net deferred tax asset is not able to be realized in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, in the event that it should be determined that all or part of a deferred tax asset in the future is in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. The Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions worldwide and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time for resolution. Although management believes that adequate provision has been made for such issues, there is the possibility that the ultimate resolution of such issues could have an adverse effect on the earnings of the Company. Conversely, if these issues are resolved favorably in the future, the related provisions would be reduced, thus having a positive impact on earnings. Product Warranty: Warranty obligations are incurred in connection with the sale of certain products. The warranty period for these products is generally one year. The costs incurred to provide for these warranty obligations are estimated and recorded as an accrued liability at the time of sale. Future warranty costs are estimated based on historical performance rates and related costs to repair given products. The accounting estimate related to product warranty is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because judgment is exercised in determining future estimated warranty costs. Should actual performance rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Carrying Value of Goodwill: Tests for impairments of goodwill are conducted annually, at year end, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The accounting estimate related to impairment of goodwill is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because these impairment tests include estimates of future cash flows that are dependent upon subjective assumptions regarding future operating results including growth rates, discount rates, capital requirements and other factors that impact the estimated fair value. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the goodwills carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Stock Based Compensation: Stock options are granted to purchase our common stock. Under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share Based Payment," stock compensation expense is recorded based upon the fair value of the stock option at the date of grant. The accounting estimate related to stock based compensation is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because estimates are made in calculating compensation expense including expected option lives, forfeiture rates and expected volatility. Expected option lives are estimated using vesting terms and contractual lives. Expected forfeiture rates and volatility are calculated using historical information. Actual option lives and forfeiture rates may be different from estimates and may result in potential future adjustments which would impact the amount of stock based compensation expense recorded in a particular period. Restructuring Costs: Restructuring costs consist of employee related severance costs, lease termination costs and other facility related closing expenses. Employee related severance benefits are recorded either at the time an employee is notified or, if there are extended service periods, is estimated and recorded pro rata over the period of each planned restructuring activity. Lease termination costs are calculated based upon fair value considering the remaining lease obligation amounts and estimates for sublease receipts. The accounting estimate related to restructuring costs is considered a "critical accounting estimate" because estimates are made in calculating the amount of employee related severance benefits that will ultimately be paid and the amount of sublease receipts that will ultimately be received in future periods. Actual amounts paid for employee related severance benefits can vary from these estimates depending upon the number of employees actually receiving severance payments. Actual sublease receipts received may also vary from estimates. Overview The following contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and these forward looking statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company is a global supplier of integrated "IP based" platforms and solutions for advanced communications networks and innovative computer system architectures. IP, short for Internet Protocol, is a widely adopted method under which information is encapsulated into "packets" and transferred over a computer network. Such computer networks can range from very short, efficient connections between elements within a single computer system to that of two or more computer systems on different sides of the world and communicating over the Internet. The Company targets three vertical markets: telecommunications, defense and homeland security, and commercial. Of the three vertical markets served, telecommunications is the largest and represents approximately 75% of the Companys business. An approximate breakdown of telecommunications applications utilizing the Companys products is as follows: Voice over IP (VoIP) represents 40%, wireless infrastructure represents 40%, and the remaining 20% is spread across IP multimedia and other applications. The Companys products are marketed through a direct worldwide sales force under a variety of brand names including Advanced Managed Platforms(TM), NexusWare(TM) and SEGway(TM). These products are based on open standards and are sold as fully integrated, purpose built, application ready platforms, or as individual blade components for the embedded communications marketplace. A key differentiation of the Companys products is the internally developed software available with each product. When sold as platforms, known as our Advanced Managed Platform products, our customers can quickly move to the enhanced value steps of their products while realizing distinct cost advantages, increased overall system reliability and performance, and improved time to market. Since its introduction in 2003, our Advanced Managed Platform product line has realized more than 37 new design wins. If successfully implemented by our customers, each design win has the potential to generate greater than $.5 million of annualized revenue when reaching production volumes. In addition, we also realized more than 36 new design wins for blade solutions in this same time period. Design wins are subject to risks and uncertainties and, therefore, not all design wins have or are expected to result in production orders. The telecommunications market served by the Company depends upon carrier spending to upgrade network infrastructure to next generation equipment. 2006 was a challenging year for equipment manufacturers serving this market. In particular, investments by U.S. wireless carriers in next generation mobile networks were very selective throughout much of the year. This occurrence adversely impacted the Company, its customers and competitors. In the European region, telecommunications continued to demonstrate growth. During 2006, our shipments to European customers continued to expand. Based on our IP network focus, Europe is expected to continue to represent important market opportunity for our products. During 2006, we balanced our traditional engineering and technology focus with a stronger emphasis on sales and marketing. In this endeavor, our sales organization was expanded, a new sales plan was instituted, more experienced sales people were hired and new sales leadership was put in place. We believe the revitalization of the sales organization was a key accomplishment in 2006. At the same time, we recognized the need to balance investments in sales and marketing with projected revenue levels. Since the beginning of 2006, we instituted a number of expense reduction initiatives including closing our Norwood engineering facility, relocating our San Luis Obispo engineering center to a less expensive facility and implementing reductions in force. In October 2006, Michael P. Skarzynski resigned as president, chief executive officer and as a member of the Board of Directors. The Companys current chairman, John M. Slusser became interim president and chief executive officer following Mr. Skarzynskis resignation. In January 2007, Mr. Slusser was appointed the permanent president and chief executive officer. Industry Overview Industry market research organizations are estimating the worldwide embedded systems market amounted to $40 billion in size in 2006, roughly the same size as in 2005. Traditionally, the largest segment of this market has used "proprietary," purpose built embedded systems and products. Embedded systems built on open standards comprise approximately 10%, or $4 billion of this market. While proprietary systems are expected to continue to dominate this market, presently, we believe a growing share of embedded systems being implemented, especially in the more limited markets served by the Company, is expected to use open standards based products. Relying on standards based development partners, such as the Company, allows customers to meet the competitive pressures of "time to market" found in most technology businesses. This also allows these suppliers to concentrate their efforts and expertise on their "value add applications and services," which typically includes software and additional hardware elements directed toward specific applications. Our customers are primarily equipment manufacturers in the telecommunications, data communications, defense and homeland security and commercial markets. Our largest customer base is the equipment manufacturers serving the telecommunications market, and shipments to these customers declined in 2006. These customers depend upon carrier spending to upgrade network infrastructure to next generation equipment. Domestic carrier spending during 2006 did not meet market expectations. In the European region, telecommunications continued to demonstrate important growth. During 2006, shipments to European customers continued to expand. Based on our IP network focus, Europe is expected to continue to represent an important market opportunity for our products. Please refer to PART 1, ITEM 1, under the caption "Business", for further discussion of the industry, economic environment and the Companys initiatives for 2007. Strategy The Company supplies embedded, standards based products and solutions to customers serving the telecommunications, defense and homeland security, and commercial markets. Today these products and solutions are typically integrated combinations of computer systems hardware and software elements which the Company refers to as Advanced Managed Platforms. These platforms offer significant customer advantages that include reduced time to market, enhanced cost versus performance metrics, high availability, etc. During its 26 year history, the Company has introduced numerous innovations to the embedded systems market and has successfully evolved with the substantial technological advancements during that period to remain on the leading edge of solutions in the markets it serves. The Company repositioned its product strategy in 2003 to deliver fully managed, integrated IP based platforms to the embedded communications marketplace. This positioning enabled the Company to address more than 60% of the served available market. Today, our line of integrated IP based platforms and solutions specifically addresses equipment manufacturers requirements for an increased level of system integration and services from suppliers, thus allowing them to focus on their value added stages of product development, which in most cases is application software. This strategy also enables our customers to replace proprietary or legacy platforms with the latest generation of platform products. There are identifiable risks associated with carrying out the Companys strategy in the current economic climate. Some of the Companys end markets are not expected to grow in 2007. In order to improve profitability in this environment, the Company will have to be more innovative and aggressive. Management believes that based on its analysis of the marketplace and the strength of the Companys product and technology portfolio, the identified risks are manageable. If successful, management believes its initiatives can yield improved profitability, particularly if the business cycle starts to show improvement. Please refer to PART 1, ITEM 1, under the caption "Business," for further information regarding the Companys "Strategy." Key Performance Indicators The Company works closely with customers to incorporate its platforms, blades and software solutions into their product designs. Such "design wins" have been a useful metric for management to judge the Companys product acceptance in its marketplace. Design wins, if successfully implemented by our customers, reach production volumes at varying rates, generally beginning twelve to eighteen months after the design win occurs. A variety of risks such as schedule delays, cancellations, changes in customer markets and economic conditions can adversely affect a design win before production is reached or during deployment. In 2006, the Company began targeting design wins with major accounts. This approach may lower the total number of design wins reported in the future although management expects such design wins to generate higher, long term value if they are implemented. During 2006, we realized ten design wins for our Advanced Managed Platform (with multiple products) (7), and individual communications products (1), SEGway products (1), and switch products (1). During 2005, the Company realized 25 design wins comprised of Advanced Managed Platform (with multiple products) (9), and individual communications products (12) and switch products (4). Each design win has the potential to generate at least $.5 million of annualized revenue when reaching production volumes. Not all design wins are expected to result in production orders. We believe that another key indicator for our business is the volume of orders received from our customers. During weak or uncertain economic periods, visibility of customer orders is limited, which frequently causes delays in the placement of orders with the Company. These factors often result in a substantial portion of the Companys revenue being derived from orders placed within a quarter and shipped in the final month of the same quarter. Forward looking visibility of customer orders continues to be very limited. Shipments to customers in 2006 amounted to $48.4 million, compared to $49.6 million in 2005. This decrease in revenue was attributable to lower shipments into the telecommunications market, including the Companys largest customer, Lucent Technologies, Inc. Shipments to Lucent declined by $3.3 million, to $6.9 million in 2006 due to a decrease in demand from Lucent customers. Our overall decrease in shipments to the telecommunications market was partially offset by increased shipments to the defense and homeland security market. Financial Overview Revenue: Revenue for 2006 amounted to $48.4 million, compared to $49.6 million in 2005. The decrease in revenue was attributable to lower shipments into the telecommunications market including the Companys largest customer, Lucent Technologies, Inc. Sales to Lucent declined by $3.3 million, to $6.9 million in 2006. Our overall decrease in sales to the telecommunications market was partially offset by increased sales to the defense and homeland security market. Shipments to customers outside of the United States represented 49% and 43% of sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively. This increase was due to the Companys continued sales efforts in the European and Asia Pacific regions which experienced growth in 2006. Shipments to the United Kingdom represented 14% of the Companys total sales in both 2006 and 2005. Earnings: GAAP information Net income in 2006 amounted to $1.5 million, or $.11 per diluted share, based on 13.3 million shares outstanding and included: o Restructuring charges of $1.8 million, or $.10 per diluted share, primarily related to closing the Norwood engineering center, the relocation of our San Luis Obispo engineering center and severance costs related to reductions in force; o A charge for non compliant RoHS inventory of $.8 million, or $.05 per diluted share; o Stock compensation expense of $.5 million, or $.03 per diluted share; and o Discrete income tax benefits amounting to $.4 million, or $.03 per diluted share. Net income in 2005 amounted to $3.0 million, or $.23 per diluted share, based on 13.2 million shares outstanding and included: o Restructuring charges of $.4 million, or $.02 per diluted share, primarily related to centralization efforts; and o An intangible asset write off amounting to $1.4 million, or $.07 per diluted share. Non GAAP information Upon the recording of certain non recurring items, the Company will calculate and report its results excluding these items from its GAAP net income to arrive at a non GAAP measure of net income. This non GAAP net income measure is calculated by adjusting net income reported on a GAAP basis for items that the Company deems to be non recurring and unusual or infrequent in their nature. The Company adjusts for these non recurring items as these items are excluded from the Companys operational analysis, budgeting and forecasting functions. Management believes that the Companys results, excluding certain non recurring items, is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because it helps investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations from period to period by removing the impact of these non recurring items from our operating results. 2004: Non GAAP net income in 2004 amounted to $3.7 million, or $.28 per diluted share, excluding non recurring items, based on 13.2 million shares outstanding. For 2004, the following non recurring items affected the comparability of net income between years: o In process research and development costs related to the Mapletree Networks, Inc. acquisition ($.2 million, or $.01 per diluted share); o Gain from the sale of an investment in Momentum Computer, Inc. ($1.2 million, or $.09 per diluted share); and o Valuation charge related to a note receivable from InSciTek Microsystems, Inc. ($3.0 million, or $.15 per diluted share). A reconciliation of GAAP net income to non GAAP net income for 2004 is as follows: 2004 Net income, GAAP basis $ 2,780 Non recurring items: In process research and development 218 Gain on sale of investment (1,504) Note receivable valuation charge 3,000 Total non recurring items 1,714 Net income excluding non recurring items before tax effect of non recurring items 4,494 Tax effect of non recurring items (824) Net income, non GAAP basis $ 3,670 Cash: Cash, cash equivalents and investments amounted to $35.2 million and $33.0 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and no long term debt existed at either date. Cash generated from operating activities amounted to $4.4 million and $9.1 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The year over year decrease in cash generated from operating activities amounted to $4.7 million and is primarily attributable to lower net income in the comparative years, changes in deferred tax assets, changes in non cash items and changes in working capital. Acquisitions, Equity Investments and Notes Receivable: Mapletree Networks, Inc. (subsequently, the Voice Technology Group, or VTG) In January 2004, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Mapletree Networks, Inc., a company that provided voice, data and fax processing technology to original equipment manufacturers for a net purchase price of approximately $4.9 million. In May 2006, the Company transferred product development and customer support for the voice technology products to other Company engineering centers and closed the VTG engineering center. The Companys revenue and expenses reflect the VTG operations from January 2004. Momentum Computer, Inc. (Momentum) Momentum is a developer of specialized single board computer products. During the third quarter 2004, the Company completed the sale of its investment in Momentum for $2.1 million and realized a gain of $1.2 million. Cash received in the fourth quarter 2004 from the sale amounted to $2.1 million, plus the collection of a $1.0 million note receivable. InSciTek Microsystems, Inc. (InSciTek) In 2004, the Company invested $3.0 million in InSciTek in the form of a convertible note receivable (including funding of $.4 million in January 2005). As of December 31, 2004, InSciTek had not raised sufficient outside capital to assure its future as a going concern. Therefore, during the fourth quarter 2004, the Company recorded a valuation charge related to this note receivable in the amount of $3.0 million as collection of this note was doubtful. The note bore interest at 10% annually and was convertible into shares of common stock of InSciTek. During the third quarter 2005, InSciTek received an investment from an outside party through the sale of Series A preferred stock. In connection with that investment, the Company and InSciTek renegotiated the terms of the note and all unpaid interest due to the Company at the date of the new investment, amounting to $.2 million, was paid in the form of Series A preferred stock of InSciTek. On December 30, 2006, the Company and InSciTek entered into an agreement whereby InSciTek redeemed $1.0 million of the $3.0 million note receivable from the Company in exchange for $.25 million of cash and $.07 million of an IP license. As a part of the agreement, InSciTek was also granted the option to redeem the remaining $2.0 million of the note by June 1, 2007, in exchange for $.5 million. As of December 31, 2006, InSciTek had not raised sufficient outside capital to assure its future as a going concern and the Company recorded a valuation charge of $.2 million against its Series A preferred stock investment in InSciTek, which reduced the carrying value of the investment to zero. Other than interest income, these transactions are recorded in Note Receivable Valuation Charge and Impairment on the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2006. Restructuring Activities: In January 2006, the Company announced plans to close its engineering center in Norwood, Massachusetts and to transfer product development and customer support for the voice technology products to other Company engineering centers. The closing of this facility was completed in May 2006. In addition, the Company relocated its facilities in San Luis Obispo, California and Ottawa, Ontario to less costly office space and instituted a reductions in force throughout the Company during 2006. Restructuring charges related to these actions amounted to $1.8 million in 2006. In 2004, the Company announced plans to centralize its multi location operations to streamline the organization. During 2004, the Company completed integration of the VTG sales, marketing and administrative functions into its corporate operations. In 2005, the Company completed its centralization activities for sales, marketing and accounting functions into corporate operations and transitioned manufacturing functions into the Rochester manufacturing operation. During 2005 and 2004, the Company incurred restructuring charges of $.4 million and $.2 million, respectively, related to these efforts. In December 2005, in connection with an assessment of the voice technology products software development, the Company recorded a charge to write off software development costs that were capitalized for new voice technology products that had not reached commercial general release and were discontinued. This intangible asset write off amounted to $1.4 million. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, certain consolidated financial data expressed as a percentage of sales, which has been included as an aid to understanding the Companys results and should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial Data and Consolidated Financial Statements (including the notes thereto) appearing elsewhere in this report. The table includes the results of operations of the Voice Technology Group from its date of acquisition in January 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Sales 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of goods sold 51.3% 50.8% 52.4% Non RoHS inventory charge 1.7% Gross profit 47.0% 49.2% 47.6% Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 12.2% 11.9% 12.0% Research and development 22.8% 20.9% 19.2% General and administrative 11.0% 9.4% 8.9% Restructuring charges 3.7% 0.7% 0.4% Intangible asset write off 2.7% In process research and development 0.4% Total operating expenses 49.7% 45.6% 40.9% (Loss) income from operations (2.7%) 3.6% 6.7% Note receivable valuation charge and (.1%) (5.6%) impairment Other income, net 3.2% 2.6% 1.4% Income before income taxes, equity in income of unconsolidated company and gain on sale of investment 0.4% 6.2% 2.5% Income tax (benefit) provision (2.7%) 0.1% (0.2%) Income before equity in income of unconsolidated company and gain on sale of investment 3.1% 6.1% 2.7% Equity in income of unconsolidated company 0.3% Gain on sale of investment in unconsolidated company, net of tax 2.2% Net income 3.1% 6.1% 5.2% Excluding non recurring items (2) 2006 2005 2004 (1) Income before income taxes, equity in income of unconsolidated company and gain on sale of investment 0.4% 6.2% 8.5% Income tax (benefit) provision (2.7%) 0.1% 1.9% Income before equity in income of unconsolidated company and gain on sale of investment 3.1% 6.1% 6.6% Equity in income of unconsolidated company 0.3% Net income 3.1% 6.1% 6.9% All per share amounts described below are presented on a diluted basis. Management believes that the Companys results, excluding certain non recurring items, is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because it helps investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations from period to period by removing the impact of these non recurring items from our operating results. See "Financial Overview" of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. (1) In 2004, using applicable tax rates, amounts exclude non recurring items amounting to $.9 million, or $.07 per share. These non recurring items in 2004 include a gain on sale of an investment in an unaffiliated company amounting to $1.2 million, or $.09 per share; in process research and development expense of $.2 million, or $.01 per share; and a valuation charge on a note receivable from an unaffiliated company amounting to $3.0 million, or $.15 per share. (2) This data is a non GAAP measure and should be read in conjunction with the GAAP disclosures above as well as footnote (1) above. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2005 Sales. Total revenue for 2006 amounted to $48.4 million, compared to $49.6 million for 2005. The Companys products are grouped into three distinct categories in one market segment: Communications (network access, signaling and voice) products, Computing products and Switching products. Revenue from each product category is expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated: 2006 2005 Communications 49% 49% Computing 29% 25% Switching 22% 26% Total 100% 100% Communications products: Communications products are comprised of network access, SEGway signaling and voice products. Network access products provide a connection between a variety of voice, data and signaling networks and embedded systems platforms that are used to control the network and or process information being transported over networks. This family includes a complete line of communications protocols. Many of the Companys signaling products provide a signaling bridge between circuit switched networks and the growing "IP based" networks, and enable the transport of signaling messages over IP networks. Voice products enable voice, data and fax processing for communications applications. Revenue from Communications products amounted to $23.5 million and $24.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. This decrease in revenue of $.5 million, or 2%, reflects a combination of factors including one major customer in 2005 that, due to market conditions, unexpectedly decreased product requirements after the second quarter 2005 and throughout 2006. This decrease was partially offset by greater demand from a variety of customers across this product category. Computing products: Computing products include Advanced Managed Platforms, a range of single board computers and associated chassis management products. Computing products revenue totaled $14.2 million and $12.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in revenue of $1.9 million, or 15%, was spread across a variety of customers that increased their purchase volumes during the comparative periods. Switching products: The Companys Ethernet switch elements operate as the "nexus" of the IP packet switching functionality for Advanced Managed Platforms and competing platforms. Switch revenue totaled $10.7 million and $12.8 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. This decrease of $2.1 million, or 16%, reflects the combination of decreased sales to one customer, Lucent, of $3.3 million, whose customer demand decreased, and partially offsetting increased sales to several other customers. Gross profit. Gross profit consists of sales, less cost of goods sold including material costs, manufacturing expenses, depreciation, amortization of software development costs, and expenses associated with engineering contracts and the technical support function. Gross margin was 47.0% and 49.2% of sales for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Restriction of Certain Hazardous Substances ("RoHS") Directive issued by the European Union (EU) became effective on July 1, 2006. Gross margin in 2006 was negatively impacted by a charge recorded in the second quarter to cost of goods sold for excess non compliant RoHS inventory in the amount of $.8 million, or 1.7% of revenue. In addition to this charge, the decrease in gross margin was attributable to a shift in product sales from higher margin products (Switching) to lower margin products (Computing). Gross margin in 2006 was positively impacted by the Companys centralization of manufacturing efforts that were completed during 2005. Also included in cost of goods sold is the amortization of software development costs which totaled $1.8 million and $1.6 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Total Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses in 2006 amounted to $24.1 million including restructuring charges amounting to $1.8 million and stock compensation expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) amounting to $.5 million. Total operating expenses in 2005 amounted to $22.7 million including restructuring charges amounting to $.4 million and an intangible asset write off of $1.4 million. Selling and marketing expenses were $5.9 million in both 2006 and 2005. The revitalization of the sales organization in 2006 involved the hiring of new sales leadership, expansion of the sales organization and the departures of existing salespeople. For 2006, savings realized by delaying hiring of the new sales people offset the higher expense level of the new sales organization. Research and development expenses were $11.0 million and $10.4 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. We capitalize certain software development costs, which reduces the amount charged to research and development expenses. Amounts capitalized were $1.8 million and $2.5 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Gross research and development expenditures were comparable for these periods and included cost reductions related to the closing of the Norwood engineering center offset by increases in new product development costs and personnel costs. General and administrative expenses totaled $5.3 million and $4.7 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in expenses is primarily related to higher personnel costs, higher corporate governance costs and stock based compensation expense in 2006. Restructuring charges amounted to $1.8 million and $.4 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Restructuring charges in 2006 primarily related to the closing of the Companys Norwood, Massachusetts engineering center, relocation of the Companys San Luis Obispo engineering center to less expensive office space and severance costs related to reductions in force. The relocation of the San Luis Obispo facility resulted in lease termination costs amounting to $.7 million. All actions under these programs were completed as of December 31, 2006, although payments for certain lease obligations will continue through 2008. The restructuring actions taken in 2006 are expected to result in cost savings of approximately $2.5 million in 2007 and will be used to offset a number of initiatives to improve the Companys market postioning. A summary of the activity with respect to the 2006 restructuring charges is as follows (amounts in millions): Lease Number of Severance commitments employees Reserve and other Total Balance at January 1, 2006 2006 restructuring charges 30 $1.0 $.8 $1.8 2006 utilization (30) (1.0) (.3) (1.3) Balance at December 31, 2006 $.5 $ .5 All utilization amounts in 2006 represent cash payments. In 2005, the Company completed the centralization of sales, marketing, accounting and manufacturing functions into corporate operations. The Company incurred $.4 million in restructuring charges in 2005 related to these restructuring efforts. Note Receivable Valuation Charge and Impairment. On December 30, 2006, the Company entered into a redemption agreement with InSciTek. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received $.3 million of consideration for the redemption of $1.0 million of the $3.0 million note receivable. In connection with the agreement, the Company reversed $.2 million of a previously recorded valuation reserve against this note and recorded $.1 million of interest income. At December 31, 2006, the Company also recorded a $.2 million impairment against the Companys investment in Series A preferred stock of InSciTek, reducing the carrying value of the investment to zero. The Company recorded this impairment due to InSciTeks uncertainty to continue as a going concern. As a part of the agreement, InSciTek was also granted the option to redeem the remaining $2.0 million of the note by June 1, 2007, in exchange for $.5 million. Other Income, net. Other income consists primarily of interest income and totaled $1.6 million in 2006, compared to $1.3 million in 2005. The Companys funds are primarily invested in high quality auction rate municipal securities. An increase in the funds available for investment as well as higher interest rates in 2006 contributed to an increase in interest income. Interest income of $.1 million and $.2 million was recorded related to the note receivable from InSciTek in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Income taxes. The effective income tax rate is a combination of federal, state and foreign tax rates and is generally lower than statutory rates because it includes benefits derived from tax credits related to research and development activities in the United States and Canada, tax exempt interest and foreign sales exemption. For 2006, the income tax benefit amounted to $1.3 million, which included income tax benefits of $.9 million for the aforementioned items and discrete income tax benefit items of $.4 million associated with the release of reserves for income tax uncertainties and the benefit of a previously unused tax credit. The Companys income tax provision of $.04 million for 2005 was less than the statutory rates due to the favorable impact of U.S. research and development credits, Canadian research and development activities, a foreign sales exemption and tax exempt interest. Year Ended December 31, 2005 compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Sales. Total revenue for 2005 amounted to $49.6 million, compared to $53.5 million in 2004. For the years indicated, the Companys products were grouped into four distinct categories in one market segment: Communications (network access, signaling and voice (acquired in January 2004)) products, Computing products, Switching products and Other products. Revenue from each product category is expressed as a percentage of sales for 2005 and 2004 as follows: 2005 2004 Communications 48% 46% Computing 25% 34% Switching 26% 19% Other 1% 1% Total 100% 100% Communications products: Communications product revenue for 2005 totaled $24.0 million, which represented a decrease of $.5 million, or 2%, from $24.5 million in 2004. This decrease in revenue in 2005 reflected one major customer representing $4.6 million in 2004 that, due to industry consolidation activity, unexpectedly ceased product requirements in the second quarter 2004. This decrease was partially offset by shipments to several new and existing customers in 2005. Computing products: Computing products revenue in 2005 totaled $12.3 million, compared to $18.1 million in 2004. The decrease in revenue of $5.8 million, or 32%, reflected two major customers representing $8.3 million in 2004, which due to market conditions, ceased purchasing product by the end of 2004. In 2005, several customers partially offset the lack of shipments to the two 2004 customers. Switching products: In 2005, switching products revenue amounted to $12.8 million, compared to $10.3 million in 2004. The increase in revenue of $2.5 million, or 24%, was attributable to increased sales to a variety of switch customers. Other products: This revenue is primarily related to legacy products. Many of these products were project oriented and shipments fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis. Gross profit. Gross profit consists of sales, less cost of goods sold including material costs, manufacturing expenses, depreciation, amortization of software development costs, and expenses associated with engineering contracts and the technical support function. Gross margin was 49.2% and 47.6% of sales for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in gross margin was a result of a change in product mix from lower margin products (Computing products) to higher margin products (Communications and Switching products), and cost reductions related to the consolidation of the Companys manufacturing operations. Lower production volumes in 2005 resulted in fixed manufacturing costs being spread over fewer units which negatively impacted the gross margin improvements noted above. Included in cost of goods sold is the amortization of software development costs which totaled $1.6 million and $1.7 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Total Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses for 2005 amounted to $22.7 million, compared to $21.9 million in 2004. The operating expenses of the Voice Technology Group (VTG) were included from the date of acquisition of January 23, 2004. Operating expenses in 2005 included the write off of software development costs amounting to $1.4 million. Operating expenses in 2005 and 2004 also included restructuring expenses of $.4 million and $.2 million, respectively. These costs were related to the Company centralizing its multi location operations and streamlining the organization. This plan began in October 2004 and was completed during the third quarter 2005. Selling and marketing expenses were $5.9 million and $6.4 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decrease in selling and marketing expenses of $.5 million, or 8%, from 2004 to 2005 was primarily the result of staff reductions in the marketing organization. Research and development expenses were $10.4 million and $10.2 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company capitalizes certain software development costs, which reduced the amount of software development charged to operating expenses. Amounts capitalized were $2.5 million and $2.2 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Gross expenditures for engineering and software development were $12.9 million in 2005 and $12.4 million in 2004. For the comparative periods, the increase in gross expenditures for engineering and software development reflected increases in personnel related costs as well as product certification and prototype costs. General and administrative expenses were $4.7 million in 2005, compared to $4.8 million in 2004. The decrease in costs from 2004 to 2005 was a result of costs savings realized from the Companys centralization plan, offset by increased corporate governance expense including Sarbanes Oxley compliance. Restructuring charges amounted to $.4 million in 2005 and $.2 million in 2004. Restructuring charges related primarily to severance payments associated with the Companys centralization activities. An intangible asset write off amounted to $1.4 million in 2005. The Company recorded a charge to write off software development costs that were capitalized for new voice technology products which had not reached commercial general release and were discontinued. An in process research and development expense amounted to $.2 million in 2004. The Company recorded in process research and development associated with the Mapletree Networks acquisition that was expensed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 4 "Applicability of SFAS No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method." This charge relates to research and development projects that had not reached technological feasibility at the time of the acquisition. Note Receivable Valuation Charge. At December 31, 2004, the Company held a note receivable from InSciTek. As of December 31, 2004, InSciTek had not raised sufficient outside capital to assure its future as a going concern. Therefore, during the fourth quarter 2004, the Company recorded a valuation charge related to this note receivable in the amount of $3.0 million, as collection of this note was doubtful. Other Income, net. Other income consists primarily of interest income. The Companys funds were primarily invested in high quality auction rate municipal securities. An increase in the funds available for investment as well as higher interest rates in 2005 resulted in an increase in interest income from $.7 million in 2004 to $1.3 million in 2005. In 2005, an increase in the principal amount of a note receivable from an unconsolidated company also contributed to higher interest income in 2005 compared to 2004. Income taxes. The Companys effective income tax rate is a combination of federal, state and foreign tax rates and is generally lower than statutory rates because it includes benefits derived from the Companys international operations, research activities, tax exempt interest and foreign sales. In 2005, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $.04 million. In 2004, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $.1 million. The Companys income tax rate for 2005 was less than the statutory rates due to the favorable impact of research and development credits, Canadian tax credits, a foreign sales exemption and tax exempt interest. The income tax benefit recorded in 2004 was primarily the result of the benefits derived from Canadian tax credits and a foreign sales exemption which exceeded the statutory tax amounts. Equity in Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Company. In the third quarter 2004, the Company sold its ownership interest in Momentum. During 2004, the Companys share of Momentums income amounted to $.2 million. Gain on Sale of Investment in Unconsolidated Company, net of tax. In the third quarter 2004, the Company sold its minority interest in Momentum and realized a gain of $1.2 million, after taxes of $.3 million. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At December 31, 2006, our primary sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and investments, which together totaled $35.2 million, plus a line of credit totaling $5.0 million available under a bank credit facility. The Company had working capital of $47.7 million and $46.8 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities amounted to $4.4 million for 2006. This amount included net income of $1.5 million, a depreciation and amortization charge of $2.5 million, stock based compensation expense of $.5 million and an increase in deferred taxes of $1.4 million. The increase in deferred taxes related to the stock compensation expense recorded in 2006 and tax credit carryforwards. Cash provided by operations due to changes in operating assets and liabilities included an increase in cash associated with a decrease in inventory of $1.5 million. The decrease in inventory is primarily related to a write off for non compliant RoHS inventory amounting to $.8 million and improved inventory management. Decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $.5 million decreased operating cash during the year. This decrease was related to the timing of payments in 2006, compared to 2005. On July 1, 2006, the RoHS Directive issued by the European Union (EU) became effective. This directive restricts the distribution of products within the EU that exceed very low maximum concentration values of certain substances, including lead. During the second quarter 2006, a charge was recorded in the amount of $.8 million related to non compliant inventory. Cash used by investing activities during 2006 totaled $6.4 million. This utilization was primarily the result of capital asset purchases of $1.1 million, the capitalization of software development costs amounting to $1.8 million and a net increase in investments of $3.5 million. Cash provided by financing activities for 2006 amounted to $.7 million, primarily resulting from the exercise of stock options. On July 11, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase shares of the Companys common stock for an aggregate amount not to exceed $10.0 million. In July 2006, this program was extended to July 2007. Under this program, shares of common stock may be repurchased through open market or private transactions, including block purchases. Repurchased shares can be used for stock option plans, potential acquisition initiatives and general corporate purposes. Under this program, the Company repurchased 276,150 shares on March 2, 2007 for approximately $1.4 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements: The Company had no off balance sheet arrangements during 2006. Contractual Obligations: The Company leases facilities under operating leases. Under the terms of the facility lease in Rochester, New York, which expires in March 2012, the Company agreed to pay an annual rent of $740,000 in the first full year, with pre established adjustments each year thereafter. The Company currently leases two facilities in the San Luis Obispo area, one comprising its former location and one comprising its new location. Under the terms of the former facility lease in San Luis Obispo, California, which expires in December 2008, the Company agreed to pay an annual rental of $422,000 with an annual adjustment based on the Consumer Price Index. Approximately 14,000 square feet of this facility is currently sublet to a tenant. The Company is seeking other tenants to sublet the remaining available space in the building. In July 2006, the Company entered into a two year lease for a new facility in the San Luis Obispo area which commenced on September 1, 2006. During the third quarter 2006, our San Luis Obispo engineering center relocated to this facility. This lease also expires in 2008. During the second quarter 2006, a lease agreement was entered into for a new facility in Kanata, Ontario, Canada. The term of this lease extends from August 1, 2006 to October 31, 2011. Rent payments under this lease range from $.1 million to $.2 million annually. During the third quarter 2006, our Ottawa operation relocated to this facility. For the lease agreements described above, the Company is also required to pay the pro rata share of the real property taxes and assessments, expenses and other charges associated with these facilities. The Company leases facilities in its other operating locations in North America that expire through 2007. The Company enters into purchase commitments during the normal course of its operations. Certain of the purchase commitments of the Company are non cancelable. At December 31, 2006, the Companys non cancelable purchase commitments expire through December 31, 2007. Included in the table below is the total of non cancelable purchase commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2006. Future minimum payments for non cancelable operating leases having a remaining term in excess of one year and outstanding non cancelable purchase commitments at December 31, 2006 are as follows: Payments Due by Period (in thousands) 2008 2011 through through Contractual Obligations Total 2007 2010 2012 Operating leases $6,218 $1,638 $3,450 $1,130 Purchase commitments 147 147 Total $6,365 $1,785 $3,450 $1,130 The Company is not a party to any other significant contractual obligations. In October 2006, the Company and Michael P. Skarzynski, the Companys former president and chief executive officer, agreed to a consulting agreement in connection with Mr. Skarzynskis resignation. In exchange for the transition services, the Company agreed to an initial payment of $50,000 to Mr. Skarzynski on November 1, 2006; a payment of $40,000 on December 31, 2006; and a final payment of $10,000 on March 31, 2007. Current Position: Assuming there is no significant change in the business, management believes that the Companys current cash, cash equivalents and investments, together with cash generated from operations should be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements, including working capital and capital expenditure requirements, for at least the next twelve months. However, management is continuing to evaluate strategic acquisitions to accelerate the Companys growth and market penetration efforts. These strategic acquisition efforts could have an impact on our working capital, liquidity or capital resources. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs An Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4." SFAS No. 151 states that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. This adoption did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting and reporting for income taxes recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." This Interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of FIN 48. The Company will adopt this Interpretation in the first quarter of 2007. In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Current Year Misstatements. SAB No. 108 requires analysis of misstatements using both an income statement (rollover) approach and a balance sheet (iron curtain) approach in assessing materiality and provides for a one time cumulative effect transition adjustment. The Company adopted SAB No. 108 on December 31, 2006. This adoption did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements," which establishes a comprehensive framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Specifically, this Statement sets forth a definition of fair value, and establishes a hierarchy prioritizing the inputs to valuation techniques, giving the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are generally required to be applied on a prospective basis, except to certain financial instruments accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," for which the provisions of SFAS No. 157 should be applied retrospectively. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 157 in the first quarter of 2008. ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Company is exposed to various market risks in the normal course of business, primarily interest rate risk and changes in the market value of its investments. The Company believes its exposure to such risk is minimal. The Companys investments are made in accordance with the Companys investment policy and primarily consist of auction rate municipal securities. The Company is also subject to foreign exchange risk related to its operations in Ottawa, Canada. The Company believes that its exposure to foreign currency risk is minimal. The Company does not participate in the investment of derivative financial instruments. 
</SECTION>
