<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: BALTIMORE GAS & ELECTRIC CO
CIK: 0000009466
SIC: 4931
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070227
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. These activities involve the use of a variety of instruments, including: forward contracts (which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future), swap agreements (which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the difference between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity), option contracts (which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price), and futures contracts (which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or make a cash settlement, at a specified price and future date). Active portfolio management allows our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation to: manage and hedge its fixed price energy purchase and sale commitments, provide fixed price energy commitments to customers and suppliers, reduce exposure to the volatility of market prices, and hedge fuel requirements at our non nuclear generation facilities. Coal and International Services Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation participates in global coal sourcing activities by providing coal and coal related logistical services, for the variable or fixed supply needs of global customers. In 2006, we delivered 26.0 million tons of coal to global customers and to our own fleet. Additionally, we entered into power, natural gas, freight, and emissions transactions outside of the United States. We also include in our coal services the results from our synthetic fuel processing facility in South Carolina. We will continue to evaluate new international opportunities, including expanding our coal sourcing, freight, and power, natural gas and emissions activities outside of the United States. Natural Gas Services Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation includes upstream (exploration and production) and downstream (transportation and storage) natural gas operations. Our upstream activities include the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. Our downstream activities include providing natural gas to various customers, including large utilities, industrial customers, power generators, wholesale marketers, and retail aggregators. 5 In 2006 and 2005, we acquired working interests in gas producing fields. We discuss these acquisitions in more detail in Note 15 to Consolidated Financial Statements. In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company that we formed. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We continue to own 54% of CEP and as a result, we continue to consolidate CEP. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other We hold up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating energy projects that consist of electric generation (primarily relying on alternative fuel sources), fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. These generating projects are considered qualifying facilities under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. Each electric generating plant sells its output to a local utility under long term contracts. We also provide operation and maintenance services, including testing and start up, to owners of electric generating facilities. UniStar Nuclear In 2005, we formed UniStar Nuclear, LLC (UniStar), a joint enterprise with AREVA NP, Inc., to develop the business model for a standardized fleet of nuclear power plants based on an advanced design called the U.S. Evolutionary Power Reactor (U.S. EPR). UniStar provides the framework through which we can work with AREVA NP, Inc. to obtain design certification and all necessary approvals from the NRC to license, construct, own, and operate U.S. EPR plants. UniStar also offers the business framework that could enable the development of future joint ventures with Constellation Energy, other energy companies, and interested parties. Those future joint ventures, in turn, would license, construct, own, and operate nuclear power plants as part of a standardized fleet. However, prior to identifying specific projects or committing to ordering new nuclear power plants, our financial commitment will be limited to the formation of the business platform and business development activities, including licensing and permit activities and securing access to long lead materials such as heavy forgings needed for reactor pressure vessels and steam generators or turbine and generator parts. Fuel Sources Our power plants use diverse fuel sources. Our fuel mix based on capacity owned at December 31, 2006 and our generation based on actual output by fuel type in 2006 were as follows: Fuel Capacity Owned Generation* Nuclear 45 % 52 % Coal 32 30 Natural Gas 7 15 Oil 8 Renewable and Alternative (1) 5 3 Dual (2) 3 * Includes output from gas fired plants until sale in December 2006. (1) Includes solar, geothermal, hydro, waste coal and biomass. (2) Switches between natural gas and oil. We discuss our risks associated with fuel in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Risk. Nuclear The output at our nuclear facilities over the past five years (including periods prior to our acquisition of Ginna in June 2004) is presented in the following table: Calvert Cliffs Nine Mile Point Ginna MWH Capacity Factor MWH* Capacity Factor MWH Capacity Factor (MWH in millions) 2006 13.8 90 % 12.8 93 % 4.1 93 % 2005 14.7 97 12.7 93 4.0 93 2004 14.5 96 12.1 89 4.3 100 2003 13.7 93 12.2 90 3.9 90 2002 12.1 82 11.7 87 3.8 89 * represents our proportionate ownership interest The supply of fuel for nuclear generating stations includes the: purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride), conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of uranium hexafluoride, and fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies. Uranium and Conversion We have commitments for sufficient quantities of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride) to meet 100% of our total requirements through 2010. Additionally, we have commitments covering approximately 95% of our requirements in 2011. 6 Enrichment We have commitments that provide 100% of our uranium enrichment requirements through 2010 and 75% of these requirements in 2011 and 2012. We have commitments that provide 50% of our uranium enrichment requirements from 2013 through 2020. Fuel Assembly Fabrication We have commitments for the fabrication of fuel assemblies for reloads required through 2013 for Nine Mile Point and Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Inc. (Calvert Cliffs), and through 2017 for Ginna. The nuclear fuel markets are competitive, and although prices for uranium and conversion are increasing, we do not anticipate any significant problems in meeting our future requirements. Storage of Spent Nuclear Fuel Federal Facilities One of the issues associated with the operation and decommissioning of nuclear generating facilities is disposal of spent nuclear fuel. There are no facilities for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel currently in operation in the United States, and the NRC has not licensed any such facilities. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) required the federal government, through the Department of Energy (DOE), to develop a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste. As required by the NWPA, we are a party to contracts with the DOE to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from our nuclear generating plants. The NWPA and our contracts with the DOE require payments to the DOE of one tenth of one cent (one mill) per kilowatt hour on nuclear electricity generated and sold to pay for the cost of long term nuclear fuel storage and disposal. We continue to pay those fees into the DOEs Nuclear Waste Fund for our Calvert Cliffs, Ginna, and Nine Mile Point facilities. The NWPA and our contracts with the DOE required the DOE to begin taking possession of spent nuclear fuel generated by nuclear generating units no later than January 31, 1998. The DOE has stated that it may not meet that obligation until 2017 at the earliest. This delay has required that we undertake additional actions to provide on site fuel storage at Calvert Cliffs, Ginna, and Nine Mile Point, including the installation of on site dry fuel storage capacity at Calvert Cliffs, as described in more detail below. In 2004, complaints were filed against the federal government in the United States Court of Federal Claims seeking to recover damages caused by the DOEs failure to meet its contractual obligation to begin disposing of spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. These cases are currently stayed, pending litigation in other related cases. In connection with our purchase of Ginna, all of the former owners rights and obligations related to recovery of damages for DOEs failure to meet its contractual obligations were assigned to us. However, we have an obligation to reimburse the former owner for up to $10 million of any recovered damages for such claims. Storage of Spent Nuclear Fuel On Site Facilities Calvert Cliffs has a license from the NRC to operate an on site independent spent fuel storage installation that expires in 2012. We have storage capacity at Calvert Cliffs that will accommodate spent fuel from operations through 2011. In addition, we can expand our temporary storage capacity at Calvert Cliffs to meet future requirements until approximately 2025. Nine Mile Point and Ginna are beginning initial planning studies for the potential development of independent spent fuel storage capacity. Nine Mile Points Unit 1 has sufficient storage capacity within the plant until 2011. Nine Mile Points Unit 2 has sufficient storage capacity within the plant until 2012. Ginna has sufficient storage capacity within the plant until 2010. Cost for Decommissioning Uranium Enrichment Facilities The Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires domestic nuclear utilities to contribute to a fund for decommissioning and decontaminating uranium enrichment facilities that had been operated by DOE. These contributions are generally payable over a 15 year period with escalation for inflation and are based upon the amount of uranium enriched by DOE for each utility through 1992. The 1992 Act provides that these costs are recoverable through utility service rates. BGE is solely responsible for these costs as they relate to Calvert Cliffs and made the last payment in 2006. The sellers of the Nine Mile Point plant and the Long Island Power Authority are responsible for the costs relating to the Nine Mile Point plant. The seller of Ginna is responsible for the costs related to that facility. Cost for Decommissioning We are obligated to decommission our nuclear plants at the time these plants cease operation. Every two years, the NRC requires us to demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available to decommission the sites. When BGE transferred all of its nuclear generating assets to our merchant energy business, it also transferred the trust fund established to pay for decommissioning Calvert Cliffs. At December 31, 2006, the Calvert Cliffs trust fund assets were $420.6 million. Under the Maryland Public Service Commissions (Maryland PSC) order regarding the deregulation of electric generation, BGE ratepayers must pay a total of $520 million, in 1993 dollars adjusted for inflation, to decommission Calvert Cliffs through fixed annual collections. In 2006, BGE received approval from the Maryland PSC to continue annual customer collections of approximately $18.7 million through December 31, 2016. BGE will be required to submit a filing to determine the level of customer contributions after December 31, 2016. 7 BGE is collecting this amount on behalf of Calvert Cliffs. Any costs to decommission Calvert Cliffs in excess of this $520 million must be paid by Calvert Cliffs. If BGE ratepayers have paid more than this amount at the time of decommissioning, Calvert Cliffs must refund the excess. If the cost to decommission Calvert Cliffs is less than the $520 million BGEs ratepayers are obligated to pay, Calvert Cliffs may keep the difference. As discussed in Baltimore Gas and Electric Company Provider of Last Resort section, Senate Bill 1, which was enacted in June 2006, requires BGE to provide credits to residential electric customers equal to the amount collected for decommissioning annually for 10 years beginning January 1, 2007. Under the provisions of Senate Bill 1 we are required to apply the collection of the nuclear decommissioning trust funds over the ten year period beginning January 1, 2007 toward the fulfillment of the decommissioning obligations of BGE ratepayers. The sellers of Nine Mile Point transferred a $441.7 million decommissioning trust fund to us at the time of sale. In return, we assumed all liability for the costs to decommission Unit 1 and 82% of the costs to decommission Unit 2. We believe that this amount is adequate to cover our responsibility for decommissioning Nine Mile Point to a greenfield status (restoration of the site so that it substantially matches the natural state of the surrounding properties and the sites intended use). At December 31, 2006, the Nine Mile Point trust fund assets were $572.8 million. The seller of Ginna transferred $200.8 million in decommissioning funds to us. In return, we assumed all liability for the costs to decommission the unit. We believe that this amount will be sufficient to cover our responsibility for decommissioning Ginna to a greenfield status. At December 31, 2006, the Ginna trust fund assets were $246.7 million. Coal We purchase the majority of our coal for electric generation under supply contracts with mining operators, and we acquire the remainder in the spot or forward coal markets. We believe that we will be able to renew supply contracts as they expire or enter into contracts with other coal suppliers. Our primary coal burning facilities have the following requirements: Approximate Annual Coal Requirement (tons) Special Coal Restrictions Brandon Shores Units 1 and 2 3,500,000 Sulfur content less than 1.20 lbs per (combined) mmBTU C. P. Crane Units 1 and 2 850,000 Low ash melting temperature (combined) H. A. Wagner Units 2 and 3 1,100,000 Sulfur content no more than 1% (combined) Coal deliveries to these facilities are made by rail and barge. Over the past few years, we expanded our coal sources including restructuring our rail contracts, increasing the range of coals we can consume, adding synthetic fuel as an alternate source, and finding potential other coal supply sources including shipments from various international sources. While we primarily use coal produced from mines located in central and northern Appalachia, we are capable of switching to imported coals to manage our coal supply. The timely delivery of coal together with the maintenance of appropriate levels of inventory is necessary to allow for continued, reliable generation from these facilities. All of the Conemaugh and Keystone plants annual coal requirements are purchased by the plant operators from regional suppliers on the open market. The sulfur restrictions on coal are approximately 2.3% for the Keystone plant and approximately 5.3% for the Conemaugh plant. The annual coal requirements for the ACE, Jasmin, and Poso plants, which are located in California, are supplied under contracts with mining operators. The Jasmin and Poso plants are restricted to coal with sulfur content less than 4.0% and ACE is restricted to less than 2.0%. All of our coal requirements reflect historical levels. The actual fuel quantities required can vary substantially from historical levels depending upon the relationship between energy prices and fuel costs, weather conditions, and operating requirements. Gas We purchase natural gas, storage capacity, and transportation, as necessary, for electric generation at certain plants. Some of our gas fired units can use residual fuel oil or distillates instead of gas. Gas is purchased under contracts with suppliers on the spot market and forward markets, including financial exchanges and bilateral agreements. The actual fuel quantities required can vary substantially from year to year depending upon the relationship between energy prices and fuel costs, weather conditions, and operating requirements. However, we believe that we will be able to obtain adequate quantities of gas to meet our requirements. Oil Under normal burn practices, our requirements for residual fuel oil (No. 6) amount to approximately 1.5 million to 2.0 million barrels of low sulfur oil per year. Deliveries of residual fuel oil are made from the suppliers Baltimore Harbor and Philadelphia marine terminals for distribution to the various generating plant locations. Also, based on normal burn practices, we require approximately 8.0 million to 11.0 million gallons of distillates (No. 2 oil and kerosene) annually, but these requirements can vary substantially from year 8 to year depending upon the relationship between energy prices and fuel costs, weather conditions, and operating requirements. Distillates are purchased from the suppliers Baltimore truck terminals for distribution to the various generating plant locations. We have contracts with various suppliers to purchase oil at spot prices, and for future delivery, to meet our requirements. Competition Market developments over the past several years have changed the nature of competition in the merchant energy business. Certain companies within the merchant energy sector have curtailed their activities or withdrawn completely from the business. However, new competitors (e.g., financial investors, banks and investment banks) have entered the market. We encounter competition from companies of various sizes, having varying levels of experience, financial and human resources, and differing strategies. We face competition in the market for energy, capacity, and ancillary services. In our merchant energy business, we compete with international, national, and regional full service energy providers, merchants, and producers to obtain competitively priced supplies from a variety of sources and locations, and to utilize efficient transmission, transportation, or storage. We principally compete on the basis of price, customer service, reliability, and availability of our products. With respect to power generation, we compete in the operation of energy producing projects, and our competitors in this business are both domestic and international organizations, including various utilities, industrial companies and independent power producers (including affiliates of utilities, financial investors, banks and investment banks), some of which have greater financial resources. States are considering different types of regulatory initiatives concerning competition in the power industry, which makes a competitive assessment difficult. Increased competition that resulted from some of these initiatives in several states contributed in some instances to a reduction in electricity prices and put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration of deregulation. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. We believe there is adequate growth potential in the current deregulated market and that further market changes could provide additional opportunities for our merchant energy business. In addition, our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation participates in global coal sourcing activities by providing coal for the variable or fixed supply needs of North American and international power generators. In addition, our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation includes upstream (exploitation and production) and downstream (transportation and storage) natural gas operations. As the market for commercial, industrial, and governmental supply continues to grow, we have experienced increased competition on a regional basis in our retail competitive supply activities. The increase in retail competition and the impact of wholesale power prices compared to the rates charged by local utilities has, in certain circumstances, reduced the margins that we realize from our customers. However, we believe that our experience and expertise in assessing and managing risk and our strong focus on customer service will help us to remain competitive during volatile or otherwise adverse market circumstances. Merchant Energy Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 $ 1,696.2 $ 1,415.1 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 463.3 433.2 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 2,567.7 312.7 Competitive Supply Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 2,703.9 540.7 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 45.1 56.4 Total Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 $ 7,476.2 $ 2,758.1 Generation (In millions) MWH* 59.1 60.2 55.3 51.6 44.7 * Includes output from gas fired plants until sale in December 2006. Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. The reclassifications primarily relate to operations that have been reflected as discontinued in the current year. 9 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company BGE is an electric transmission and distribution utility company and a gas distribution utility company with a service territory that covers the City of Baltimore and all or part of ten counties in central Maryland. BGE is regulated by the Maryland PSC and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) with respect to rates and other aspects of its business. BGEs electric service territory includes an area of approximately 2,300 square miles. There are no municipal or cooperative wholesale customers within BGEs service territory. BGEs gas service territory includes an area of approximately 800 square miles. BGEs electric and gas revenues come from many customers residential, commercial, and industrial. Electric Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition Deregulation Effective July 1, 2000, electric customer choice and competition among electric suppliers was implemented in Maryland. As a result of the deregulation of electric generation, all customers can choose their electric energy supplier. While BGE does not sell electric commodity to all customers in its service territory, BGE continues to deliver electricity to all customers and provides meter reading, billing, emergency response, and regular maintenance. Standard Offer Service BGE provided fixed price standard offer service to commercial and industrial customers through either June 30, 2002 or June 30, 2004, depending on customer type, and for residential customers through June 30, 2006. Upon the expiration of fixed price standard offer service, customers that continue to receive their electric supply from BGE are charged market based standard offer service rates (Provider of Last Resort rates). We discuss Provider of Last Resort (POLR) rates in more detail below. Provider of Last Resort BGE is obligated to provide market based standard offer service to all of its electric customers for varying periods. The POLR rates charged recover BGEs wholesale power supply costs and include an administrative fee. The administrative fee includes a shareholder return component and an incremental cost component. As a result of Senate Bill 1, beginning January 1, 2007, the shareholder return component of the administrative charge for residential POLR service was suspended. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in detail in the Residential Customers section. Bidding to supply BGEs market based standard offer service will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Successful bidders, which may include subsidiaries of Constellation Energy, will execute contracts with BGE for varying terms. Commercial and Industrial Customers BGE is obligated to provide market based standard offer service to commercial and industrial customers for varying periods beyond June 30, 2004, depending on customer load. In August 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order indefinitely extending the obligation of Maryland utilities to provide POLR service for those commercial and industrial customers for which market based standard offer service was scheduled to expire at the end of May 2007. The extended service will be provided on substantially the same terms as under the existing service, except that wholesale bidding for service to some customers will be conducted more frequently. BGEs obligation to provide market based standard offer service to its largest commercial and industrial customers expired on May 31, 2005. BGE continues to provide an hourly priced market based standard offer service to those customers. Residential Customers As a result of the November 1999 Maryland PSC order regarding the deregulation of electric generation in Maryland, BGEs residential electric base rates were frozen until July 2006. Subsequent orders of the Maryland PSC specified that BGE would procure the power to serve residential customers beginning July 2006 via auctions to be conducted in late 2005 and early 2006. The procured power costs of these auctions would have resulted in an average electric residential customer bill increase of 72%. In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: imposes rate stabilization measures that (i) cap rate increases by BGE for residential POLR service at 15% from July 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007, (ii) give residential POLR customers the option from June 1, 2007 until December 31, 2007 of paying a full market rate or choosing a short term rate stabilization plan in order to provide a smooth transition to market rates without adversely affecting the creditworthiness of BGE, and (iii) provide for full market rates for residential POLR service starting January 1, 2008; allows BGE to recover the costs deferred from July 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007 from its customers over a period not to exceed 10 years, on terms and conditions to be determined by the Maryland PSC, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs; 10 directs the Maryland PSC to investigate measures to mitigate the impact of residential rate increases on BGE customers, including by investigating the prior determination of and allowances for stranded costs that occurred when BGE transferred assets to its affiliates in 2000 and by requiring the Maryland PSC to provide funds to residential customers of BGE for mitigation of BGEs rate increases, including any adjustment in favor of BGEs customers to allowances for such stranded costs; and requires BGE to reduce residential electric rates by approximately $39 million per year for 10 years, beginning January 1, 2007, through suspension of the collection of the residential return component of the administrative charge for POLR service and a credit equal to the amount collected from BGE ratepayers for the nuclear decommissioning trust for Calvert Cliffs. We provide further details in the Cost for Decommissioning section. In August 2006, the Maryland PSC began its investigation into the general regulatory structure, agreements, orders, and other prior actions of the Maryland PSC under the Electric Customer Choice and Competition Act of 1999, including the determination of and allowances for stranded costs. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation, but it could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order that allows BGE to securitize its costs relating to the residential rate deferral through the issuance of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. Also in December 2006, in connection with implementing the $39 million in annual residential electric rate reductions discussed above, BGE and Calvert Cliffs notified the Maryland PSC that they had entered into a standstill agreement with the Attorney General of the State of Maryland with respect to potential challenges to the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to the reductions. In January 2007, BGE filed a proposed plan with the Maryland PSC that would allow residential electric customers to defer the transition to full market rates from June 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007. Under the proposed plan, electric rates for residential customers who elect this extended deferral would increase on June 1, 2007 by one half of the total increase remaining to reach full market rates on January 1, 2008. We estimate that electric rates for residential electric customers under this plan will be approximately 20 25% higher on June 1, 2007 compared to current residential electric rates. This estimate may differ from the actual increase on June 1, 2007 based on BGEs actual procured power cost, which will be determined in April 2007 via auctions. Customers who choose to defer would repay the deferred amounts over a two year period starting January 1, 2008, at which time these customers would transition to full market rates. The proposed plan remains subject to Maryland PSC approval. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss other aspects of Senate Bill 1 in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Business Environment Senate Bill 1 section. We discuss the market risk of our regulated electric business in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Risk section. Electric Load Management BGE has implemented various programs for use when system operating conditions or market economics indicate that a reduction in load would be beneficial. We refer to these programs as active load management programs. These programs include: two options for commercial and industrial customers to voluntarily reduce their electric loads, air conditioning control for residential and commercial customers, and residential water heater control. These programs generally take effect on summer days when demand and or wholesale prices are relatively high and had the capability during the 2006 summer to reduce load up to approximately 233 MW. Transmission and Distribution Facilities BGE maintains approximately 250 substations and 1,300 circuit miles of transmission lines throughout central Maryland. BGE also maintains approximately 23,900 circuit miles of distribution lines. The transmission facilities are connected to those of neighboring utility systems as part of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff and various agreements, BGE and other market participants can use regional transmission facilities for energy, capacity, and ancillary services transactions including emergency assistance. We discuss various FERC initiatives relating to wholesale electric markets in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Federal Regulation section. 11 Electric Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential $ 1,092.1 $ 1,066.6 $ 1,015.8 $ 959.0 $ 946.6 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 733.4 722.1 708.9 694.2 776.0 Delivery Service Only 149.4 107.5 78.6 66.1 33.5 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 46.8 52.8 92.3 137.0 158.7 Delivery Service Only 26.2 28.0 21.3 18.2 10.9 System Sales and Deliveries 2,047.9 1,977.0 1,916.9 1,874.5 1,925.7 Other (A) 68.0 59.5 50.8 47.1 40.3 Total $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 $ 1,921.6 $ 1,966.0 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) MWH Residential 12,886 13,762 13,313 12,754 12,652 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 6,325 7,847 9,286 9,937 11,840 Delivery Service Only 9,392 7,967 5,767 4,982 2,762 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 467 614 1,429 2,556 3,478 Delivery Service Only 2,988 3,122 2,562 1,780 997 Total 32,058 33,312 32,357 32,009 31,729 Customers (In thousands) Residential 1,093.3 1,084.1 1,072.1 1,061.7 1,052.3 Commercial 115.5 114.7 113.6 112.1 110.8 Industrial 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.9 4.9 Total 1,214.0 1,203.8 1,190.5 1,178.7 1,168.0 (A) Primarily includes network integration transmission service revenues, late payment charges, miscellaneous service fees, and tower leasing revenues. Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 12 Gas Business The wholesale price of natural gas as a commodity is not subject to regulation. All BGE gas customers have the option to purchase gas from alternative suppliers, including subsidiaries of Constellation Energy. BGE continues to deliver gas to all customers within its service territory. This delivery service is regulated by the Maryland PSC. BGE also provides customers with meter reading, billing, emergency response, regular maintenance, and balancing services. Approximately 50% of the gas delivered on BGEs distribution system is for customers that purchase gas from alternative suppliers. These customers are charged fees to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver the customers gas through our distribution system. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. For customers that buy their gas from BGE, there is a market based rates incentive mechanism. Under this market based rates incentive mechanism, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. BGE must secure fixed price contracts for at least 10%, but not more than 20%, of forecasted system supply requirements for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are not subject to sharing under the market based rates incentive mechanism. BGE purchases the natural gas it resells to customers directly from many producers and marketers. BGE has transportation and storage agreements that expire from 2007 to 2028. BGEs current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve BGEs firm loads are 313,053 dekatherms (DTH) per day. BGEs current maximum storage entitlements are 235,080 DTH per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has: a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,092,977 DTH and a daily capacity of 311,500 DTH, and a propane air facility with a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 564,200 DTH and a daily capacity of 85,000 DTH. BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short term contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of short term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand. BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off system sales. Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance our supply of, and cost of, natural gas. 13 Gas Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only $ 490.2 $ 558.5 $ 478.0 $ 444.5 $ 342.1 Delivery Service Only 20.6 23.2 14.2 13.6 16.5 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 148.9 174.4 135.4 128.6 89.4 Delivery Service Only 35.9 31.9 28.0 24.6 29.2 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 7.5 10.5 9.4 11.5 9.3 Delivery Service Only 19.3 12.4 7.8 11.4 13.9 System Sales and Deliveries 722.4 810.9 672.8 634.2 500.4 Off System Sales 168.6 154.7 77.2 84.8 74.8 Other 8.5 7.2 7.0 7.0 6.1 Total $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 $ 726.0 $ 581.3 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) DTH Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only 33,019 39,107 39,080 40,894 35,364 Delivery Service Only 3,948 5,423 6,053 6,640 6,404 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 11,683 14,133 13,248 13,895 11,583 Delivery Service Only 25,695 28,993 34,120 29,138 28,429 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 604 921 865 1,143 1,207 Delivery Service Only 20,325 19,357 14,310 18,399 23,689 System Sales and Deliveries 95,274 107,934 107,676 110,109 106,676 Off System Sales 19,738 17,209 9,914 12,859 18,551 Total 115,012 125,143 117,590 122,968 125,227 Customers (In thousands) Residential 597.1 590.9 582.0 575.2 567.3 Commercial 42.3 42.0 41.6 41.1 40.7 Industrial 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.3 Total 640.6 634.1 624.8 617.5 609.3 Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 14 Franchises BGE has nonexclusive electric and gas franchises to use streets and other highways that are adequate and sufficient to permit them to engage in their present business. Conditions of the franchises are satisfactory. Other Nonregulated Businesses Energy Projects and Services We offer energy projects and services designed primarily to provide energy solutions to large commercial and industrial and governmental customers. These energy products and services include: designing, constructing, and operating heating, cooling, and cogeneration facilities, energy savings projects and performance contracting, energy consulting and procurement services , services to enhance the reliability of individual electric supply systems, and customized financing alternatives. Home Products and Gas Retail Marketing We offer services to customers in Maryland including: home improvements, the service of heating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, and indoor air quality systems, and the sale of natural gas to residential customers. Consolidated Capital Requirements Our total capital requirements for 2006 were $1,149 million. Of this amount, $789 million was used in our nonregulated businesses and $360 million was used in our regulated business. We estimate our total capital requirements will be $1,915 million in 2007. We continuously review and change our capital expenditure programs, so actual expenditures may vary from the estimate above. We discuss our capital requirements further in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Capital Resources section. Environmental Matters The development (involving site selection, environmental assessments, and permitting), construction, acquisition, and operation of electric generating and distribution facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and land use laws and regulations. From the beginning phases of development to the ongoing operation of existing or new electric generating and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse laws and regulations that address emissions and impacts to air and water, protection of natural and cultural resources, and chemical and waste handling and disposal. We continuously monitor federal, state, and local environmental initiatives to determine potential impacts on our financial results. As new laws or regulations are promulgated, we assess their applicability and implement the necessary modifications to our facilities or their operation to maintain ongoing compliance. Our capital expenditures were approximately $100 million during the five year period 2002 2006 to comply with existing environmental standards and regulations. Our estimated environmental capital requirements for the next three years are approximately $335 million in 2007, $495 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2009. Air Quality Federal The Clean Air Act created the basic framework for the federal and state regulation of air pollution. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) The NAAQS are federal air quality standards authorized under the Clean Air Act that establish maximum ambient air concentrations for the following specific pollutants: ozone (smog), carbon monoxide, lead, particulates, sulfur dioxides (SO2), and nitrogen dioxides (NO2). In order for states to achieve compliance with the NAAQS, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005 to further reduce ozone and fine particulate pollution by addressing the interstate transport of SO2 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from fossil fuel fired generating facilities located primarily in the Eastern United States. In May 2005, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for ozone and rescinded a requirement to impose fees on emissions sources in certain areas, including certain of our generating facilities, for failure to achieve the previous ozone standard. States will be required to submit plans to the EPA to meet the new standard by 2007, at which time the standard will take effect. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for ozone will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. In December 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the requirement to impose fees on emissions sources based on the previous ozone standard remained applicable retroactive to November 2005 and remanded the issue to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict what action the EPA will take in response to the Courts decision and whether the fees will be retroactively assessed. The exact method of computing these fees has not been established and will depend in part on state implementation regulations that have not been finalized. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the ultimate financial impact of the fees in light of the uncertainty surrounding the methodology that 15 will be used in calculating the fees. However, any fees that are ultimately assessed could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. In September 2006, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for particulate matter. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for particulate matter will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. Hazardous Air Emissions In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) to reduce the emissions of mercury from coal fired facilities through a market based cap and trade program. CAMR will affect all coal or waste coal fired boilers at our generating facilities. New Source Review In connection with its enforcement of the Clean Air Acts new source review requirements, in 2000, the EPA requested information relating to modifications made to our Brandon Shores, Crane, and Wagner plants located in Maryland. The EPA also sent similar, but narrower, information requests to two of our newer Pennsylvania waste coal burning plants in which we have an ownership interest. We responded to the EPA in 2001, and as of the date of this report the EPA has taken no further action. Based on the level of emissions control that the EPA and states are seeking in these new source review enforcement actions, we believe that material additional costs and penalties could be incurred, and planned capital expenditures could be accelerated, if the EPA was successful in any future actions regarding our facilities. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia annulled the equipment replacement rule adopted by the EPA in August 2003, which established a threshold for determining when major new source review requirements are triggered. We believe the Court decision, which was anticipated, should have minimal effect on us as it maintains the existing rules for equipment replacement. However, we anticipate that the EPA will continue to examine the existing equipment replacement rules and may again propose new rules. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case, not involving us, relating to the new source review requirements. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of any future EPA regulatory action or the outcome of the U.S. Supreme Court proceeding, or their possible effect on our financial results. State Maryland has adopted the Healthy Air Act (HAA) and the Clean Power Rule (CPR), which establish annual SO2, NOx, and mercury emission caps for specific coal fired units in Maryland, including units located at three of our facilities. The requirements of the HAA and the CPR for SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions are more stringent and apply sooner than those under CAIR and CAMR. In addition, Pennsylvania has adopted regulations requiring coal fired generating facilities located in Pennsylvania to reduce mercury emissions sooner and to a greater extent than required under CAMR. Several other states in the northeastern U.S. continue to consider more stringent and earlier SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions reductions than those required under CAIR or CAMR. Capital Expenditure Estimates We expect to incur additional environmental capital spending as a result of complying with the air quality laws and regulations discussed above. Based on the information currently available to us about CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR, we will install additional air emission control equipment at our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at our co owned coal fired facilities in Pennsylvania to meet air quality standards. We include in our estimated environmental capital requirements capital spending for these projects, which we expect will be approximately $320 million in 2007, $470 million in 2008, $290 million in 2009 and $40 million from 2010 2011. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any additional federal and or state regulations or legislation, the implementation timetables for such regulation or legislation, and the specific amount of emissions reductions that will be required at our facilities. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope or timing of these projects with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. In addition, CAMR is subject to legal challenges filed by the states and industry and environmental groups. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these challenges, or their possible effect on our financial results. We believe that the additional air emission control equipment we plan to install will meet the emission reduction requirements under CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR. If additional emission reductions still are required, we will assess our various compliance alternatives and their related costs, and although we cannot yet estimate the additional costs we may incur, such costs could be material. 16 Global Climate Change Although uncertainty remains as to the nature and timing of greenhouse gas emissions regulation, there is an increasing likelihood that such regulation will occur at the federal and or state level. In the event that greenhouse gas emissions reduction legislation or regulations are enacted, we will assess our various compliance alternatives, which may include installation of additional environmental controls, modification of operating schedules or the closure of one or more of our coal fired generating facilities. Any compliance costs we incur could have a material impact on our financial results. The HAA requires that Maryland become a full participant in the Northeast Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) by June 2007. Under RGGI, it is expected that affected plants would participate in an auction to obtain sufficient CO2 allowances to support the level of emissions that result from plant operations. In addition, California has adopted regulations requiring our generating facilities in California to submit greenhouse gas emissions data to the state, which the state intends to use to develop a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the HAA and California CO2 emissions requirements and RGGI participation on our financial results; however, our compliance costs could be material. Water Quality The Clean Water Act established the basic framework for federal and state regulation of water pollution control and requires facilities that discharge waste or storm water into the waters of the United States to obtain permits. Water Intake Regulations In July 2004, the EPA published final rules under the Clean Water Act that require cooling water intake structures to reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts. We currently have six facilities affected by the regulation. The rule allows for a number of compliance options that will be assessed through 2007, following which we will determine whether any action is required and what our most viable options are if any action is required. Until we determine our most viable option under the final rules, we cannot estimate our compliance costs. However, the costs associated with the final rules could be material. In January 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that the EPAs rule did not properly implement the Clean Water Act requirements in a number of areas and remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any EPA regulatory action taken in response to the courts decision. However, any such action could impact our compliance approach, which could have a material effect on our financial results. Hazardous and Solid Waste We discuss proceedings relating to compliance with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our coal fired generating facilities produce approximately two and a half million tons of combustion by products (ash) each year. The EPA has announced its intention to develop national standards, currently scheduled to be proposed in May 2007, to regulate this material as a non hazardous waste, and is developing regulations governing the placement of ash in landfills, surface impoundments, and sand/gravel surface mines. The EPA is also developing regulations for ash placement in coal mines, which are expected to be proposed in October 2007. Federal regulation has the potential to result in additional requirements. Depending on the scope of any final requirements, our compliance costs could be material. As a result of these regulatory proposals, the remaining ash placement capacity at our current mine reclamation site and our current ash generation projections, we are exploring our options for the placement of ash, including construction of an ash placement facility. Over the next five years, we estimate that our capital expenditures for this project will be approximately $75 million. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any regulatory change, its implementation timetable, and the scope of the final requirements. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope and timing of this project with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. Employees Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 9,645 employees at December 31, 2006. At the Nine Mile Point facility, approximately 515 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 97. The labor contract with this union expires in June 2011. We believe that our relationship with this union is satisfactory, but there can be no assurances that this will continue to be the case. 17 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as counterparties). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured partys nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGEs recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGEs distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGEs, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGEs, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGEs, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Item 2. Properties Constellation Energys corporate offices occupy approximately 106,000 square feet of leased office space in Baltimore, Maryland. The corporate offices for most of our merchant energy business occupy approximately 268,000 square feet of leased office space in another building in Baltimore, Maryland. We describe our electric generation properties on the next page. We also have leases for other offices and services located in the Baltimore metropolitan region, and for various real property and facilities relating to our generation projects. BGE owns its principal headquarters building located in downtown Baltimore. In addition, BGE owns propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as discussed in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. BGE also has rights of way to maintain 26 inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expired in 2004. BGE is in the process of renewing the rights of way with Baltimore City for an additional 25 years. The expiration of the rights of way does not affect BGEs ability to use the rights of way during the renewal process. BGE has electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines located: in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises, and on rights of way secured for the most part by grants from owners of the property. All of BGEs property is subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage securing its mortgage bonds. The generation facilities transferred to our subsidiaries by BGE on July 1, 2000, along with the stock we own in certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage. We believe we have satisfactory title to our power project facilities in accordance with standards generally accepted in the energy industry, subject to exceptions, which in our opinion, would not have a material adverse effect on the use or value of the facilities. Our merchant energy business owns several natural gas producing properties. We also lease office space throughout North America, and in the United Kingdom and Australia to support our merchant energy business. 22 The following table describes our generating facilities: Plant Location Capacity (MW) % Owned Capacity Owned (MW) Primary Fuel (at December 31, 2006) Mid Atlantic Region Calvert Cliffs Calvert Co., MD 1,735 100.0 1,735 Nuclear Brandon Shores Anne Arundel Co., MD 1,286 100.0 1,286 Coal H. A. Wagner Anne Arundel Co., MD 963 100.0 963 Coal/Oil/Gas C. P. Crane Baltimore Co., MD 399 100.0 399 Oil/Coal Keystone Armstrong and Indiana Cos., PA 1,706 21.0 358 (A) Coal Conemaugh Indiana Co., PA 1,714 10.6 181 (A) Coal Perryman Harford Co., MD 355 100.0 355 Oil/Gas Riverside Baltimore Co., MD 200 100.0 200 Oil/Gas Handsome Lake Rockland Twp, PA 250 100.0 250 Gas Notch Cliff Baltimore Co., MD 120 100.0 120 Gas Westport Baltimore City, MD 116 100.0 116 Gas Philadelphia Road Baltimore City, MD 64 100.0 64 Oil Safe Harbor Safe Harbor, PA 417 66.7 278 Hydro Total Mid Atlantic Region 9,325 6,305 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements Nine Mile Point Unit 1 Scriba, NY 620 100.0 620 Nuclear Nine Mile Point Unit 2 Scriba, NY 1,138 82.0 933 Nuclear R.E. Ginna Ontario, NY 581 100.0 581 Nuclear Total Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2,339 2,134 Other Panther Creek Nesquehoning, PA 80 50.0 40 Waste Coal Colver Colver Township, PA 104 25.0 26 Waste Coal Sunnyside Sunnyside, UT 52 50.0 26 Waste Coal ACE Trona, CA 102 31.1 32 Coal Jasmin Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal POSO Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal Mammoth Lakes G 1 Mammoth Lakes, CA 6 50.0 3 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 2 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 3 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Soda Lake I Fallon, NV 4 50.0 2 Geothermal Soda Lake II Fallon, NV 10 50.0 5 Geothermal Rocklin Placer Co., CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Fresno Fresno, CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Chinese Station Jamestown, CA 22 45.0 10 Biomass Malacha Muck Valley, CA 32 50.0 16 Hydro SEGS IV Kramer Junction, CA 33 12.2 4 Solar SEGS V Kramer Junction, CA 24 4.2 1 Solar SEGS VI Kramer Junction, CA 34 8.8 3 Solar Total Other 643 238 Total Generating Facilities 12,307 8,677 (A) Reflects our proportionate interest in and entitlement to capacity from Keystone and Conemaugh, which include 2 MW of diesel capacity for Keystone and 1 MW of diesel capacity for Conemaugh. 23 The following table describes our processing facilities: Plant Location % Owned Primary Fuel A/C Fuels Hazelton, PA 50.0 Waste Coal Processing Gary PCI Gary, IN 24.5 Coal Processing Low Country Cross, SC 99.0 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel VA I Norton, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV I Chelyan, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV II Mount Storm, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV III Chester, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing Item 3. Legal Proceedings We discuss our legal proceedings in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders On December 8, 2006, we held our annual meeting of shareholders. At that meeting, the following matters were voted upon: 1. Class I Directors nominated by Constellation Energy were elected to serve for a term to expire in 2009 and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as follows: COMMON SHARES CAST: For Withheld Douglas L. Becker 119,241,432 14,048,574 Edward A. Crooke 122,520,333 10,769,673 Mayo A. Shattuck III 128,640,389 4,649,617 Michael D. Sullivan 119,327,025 13,962,981 All other directors whose term of office continued after the date of this meeting are: James T. Brady Freeman A. Hrabowski, III James R. Curtiss Nancy Lampton Yves C. de Balmann Robert J. Lawless Lynn M. Martin 2. The ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2006 was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 130,005,402, the number of votes cast against was 1,846,861, and the number of abstentions was 1,437,743. 3. The shareholder proposal requesting Constellation Energy to declassify the Board of Directors was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 76,259,034, the number of votes cast against was 7,688,559, the number of abstentions was 26,748,840, and the number of broker non votes was 22,593,573. 24 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Present Office Other Offices or Positions Held During Past Five Years Mayo A. Shattuck III 52 Chairman of the Board of Constellation Energy (since July 2002), President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy (since November 2001); and Chairman of the Board of BGE (since July 2002) None. E. Follin Smith 47 Executive Vice President (since January 2004), Chief Financial Officer (since June 2001) and Chief Administrative Officer (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (since January 2002) Senior Vice President Constellation Energy. Thomas V. Brooks 44 Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); and Vice Chairman (since August 2005) and Executive Vice President (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy President and Chief Executive Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Michael J. Wallace 59 President (since January 2002) and Chief Executive Officer (since May 2005) of Constellation Generation Group, LLC; and Executive Vice President of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) None. Thomas F. Brady 57 Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy. Irving B. Yoskowitz 61 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Constellation Energy (since June 2005) Senior Counsel Crowell & Moring (law firm); and Senior Partner Global Technology Partners, LLC (investment banking and consulting firm). Felix J. Dawson 39 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since May 2006) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. 25 George E. Persky 37 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Kenneth W. DeFontes, Jr. 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2004) Vice President, Electric Transmission and Distribution BGE. Paul J. Allen 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Corporate Affairs Constellation Energy. John R. Collins 49 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Risk Officer of Constellation Energy (since December 2001); and member of Board of Managers of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since September 2006) Vice President Constellation Energy. Beth S. Perlman 46 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Information Officer of Constellation Energy (since April 2002) Vice President Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Technology Enron Corporation. Marc L. Ugol 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Human Resources Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Tellabs, Inc. Officers are elected by, and hold office at the will of, the Board of Directors and do not serve a term of office as such. There is no arrangement or understanding between any director or officer and any other person pursuant to which the director or officer was selected. 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Stock Trading Constellation Energys common stock is traded under the ticker symbol CEG. It is listed on the New York and Chicago stock exchanges. As of January 31, 2007, there were 41,680 common shareholders of record. Dividend Policy Constellation Energy pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on Constellation Energy paying common stock dividends. Dividends have been paid continuously since 1910 on the common stock of Constellation Energy, BGE, and their predecessors. Future dividends depend upon future earnings, our financial condition, and other factors. In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.3775 to $0.435 per share payable April 2, 2007 to holders of record on March 12, 2007. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Quarterly dividends were declared on our common stock during 2006 and 2005 in the amounts set forth below. BGE pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on BGE paying common stock dividends unless: BGE elects to defer interest payments on the 6.20% Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures due 2043, and any deferred interest remains unpaid; or any dividends (and any redemption payments) due on BGEs preference stock have not been paid. Common Stock Dividends and Price Ranges 2006 2005 Dividend Price Dividend Price Declared High Low Declared High Low First Quarter $ 0.3775 $ 60.55 $ 54.01 $ 0.335 $ 53.55 $ 43.01 Second Quarter 0.3775 55.68 50.55 0.335 57.91 50.36 Third Quarter 0.3775 60.79 53.70 0.335 62.09 56.50 Fourth Quarter 0.3775 70.20 59.00 0.335 62.60 50.40 Total $ 1.51 $ 1.340 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The following table presents shares surrendered by employees to exercise stock options and to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock and stock option exercises. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid for Shares Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans and Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 565 $ 60.43 November 1 November 30, 2006 December 1 December 31, 2006 2,483 68.61 Total 3,048 $ 67.09 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Constellation Energy Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002(1) (In millions, except per share amounts) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 19,284.9 $ 16,968.3 $ 12,127.2 $ 9,342.8 $ 4,771.6 Total Expenses 18,025.2 16,023.8 11,209.1 8,395.5 3,711.5 Gain on Sale of Gas Fired Plants 73.8 Income From Operations 1,333.5 944.5 918.1 947.3 1,060.1 Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC 28.7 Other Income 66.1 65.5 25.5 20.6 33.8 Fixed Charges 328.7 310.2 326.8 336.3 277.3 Income Before Income Taxes 1,099.6 699.8 616.8 631.6 816.6 Income Taxes 351.0 163.9 118.4 222.2 301.2 Income from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 409.4 515.4 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes 187.8 94.4 41.3 66.3 10.2 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net of Income Taxes (7.2 ) (198.4 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 $ 277.3 $ 525.6 Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles Assuming Dilution $ 4.12 $ 2.98 $ 2.88 $ 2.45 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations 1.04 0.53 0.24 0.40 0.06 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles (0.04 ) (1.19 ) Earnings Per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 5.16 $ 3.47 $ 3.12 $ 1.66 $ 3.20 Dividends Declared Per Common Share $ 1.51 $ 1.34 $ 1.14 $ 1.04 $ 0.96 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 21,801.6 $ 21,473.9 $ 17,347.1 $ 15,593.0 $ 14,943.3 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 878.8 $ 491.3 $ 480.4 $ 343.2 $ 426.2 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 4,222.3 $ 4,369.3 $ 4,813.2 $ 5,039.2 $ 4,613.9 Minority Interests 94.5 22.4 90.9 113.4 105.3 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 4,609.3 4,915.5 4,726.9 4,140.5 3,862.3 Total Capitalization $ 9,116.1 $ 9,497.2 $ 9,821.0 $ 9,483.1 $ 8,771.5 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 4.05 3.04 2.71 2.69 3.31 Book Value Per Share of Common Stock $ 25.54 $ 27.57 $ 26.81 $ 24.68 $ 23.44 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. (1) Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 include $255.5 million of gains recognized on the sale of our outstanding shares of Orion Power Holdings, Inc. We discuss items that affect comparability between years, including acquisitions and dispositions, accounting changes and other items, in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Risk. Nuclear The output at our nuclear facilities over the past five years (including periods prior to our acquisition of Ginna in June 2004) is presented in the following table: Calvert Cliffs Nine Mile Point Ginna MWH Capacity Factor MWH* Capacity Factor MWH Capacity Factor (MWH in millions) 2006 13.8 90 % 12.8 93 % 4.1 93 % 2005 14.7 97 12.7 93 4.0 93 2004 14.5 96 12.1 89 4.3 100 2003 13.7 93 12.2 90 3.9 90 2002 12.1 82 11.7 87 3.8 89 * represents our proportionate ownership interest The supply of fuel for nuclear generating stations includes the: purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride), conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of uranium hexafluoride, and fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies. Uranium and Conversion We have commitments for sufficient quantities of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride) to meet 100% of our total requirements through 2010. Additionally, we have commitments covering approximately 95% of our requirements in 2011. 6 Enrichment We have commitments that provide 100% of our uranium enrichment requirements through 2010 and 75% of these requirements in 2011 and 2012. We have commitments that provide 50% of our uranium enrichment requirements from 2013 through 2020. Fuel Assembly Fabrication We have commitments for the fabrication of fuel assemblies for reloads required through 2013 for Nine Mile Point and Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Inc. (Calvert Cliffs), and through 2017 for Ginna. The nuclear fuel markets are competitive, and although prices for uranium and conversion are increasing, we do not anticipate any significant problems in meeting our future requirements. Storage of Spent Nuclear Fuel Federal Facilities One of the issues associated with the operation and decommissioning of nuclear generating facilities is disposal of spent nuclear fuel. There are no facilities for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel currently in operation in the United States, and the NRC has not licensed any such facilities. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) required the federal government, through the Department of Energy (DOE), to develop a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste. As required by the NWPA, we are a party to contracts with the DOE to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from our nuclear generating plants. The NWPA and our contracts with the DOE require payments to the DOE of one tenth of one cent (one mill) per kilowatt hour on nuclear electricity generated and sold to pay for the cost of long term nuclear fuel storage and disposal. We continue to pay those fees into the DOEs Nuclear Waste Fund for our Calvert Cliffs, Ginna, and Nine Mile Point facilities. The NWPA and our contracts with the DOE required the DOE to begin taking possession of spent nuclear fuel generated by nuclear generating units no later than January 31, 1998. The DOE has stated that it may not meet that obligation until 2017 at the earliest. This delay has required that we undertake additional actions to provide on site fuel storage at Calvert Cliffs, Ginna, and Nine Mile Point, including the installation of on site dry fuel storage capacity at Calvert Cliffs, as described in more detail below. In 2004, complaints were filed against the federal government in the United States Court of Federal Claims seeking to recover damages caused by the DOEs failure to meet its contractual obligation to begin disposing of spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. These cases are currently stayed, pending litigation in other related cases. In connection with our purchase of Ginna, all of the former owners rights and obligations related to recovery of damages for DOEs failure to meet its contractual obligations were assigned to us. However, we have an obligation to reimburse the former owner for up to $10 million of any recovered damages for such claims. Storage of Spent Nuclear Fuel On Site Facilities Calvert Cliffs has a license from the NRC to operate an on site independent spent fuel storage installation that expires in 2012. We have storage capacity at Calvert Cliffs that will accommodate spent fuel from operations through 2011. In addition, we can expand our temporary storage capacity at Calvert Cliffs to meet future requirements until approximately 2025. Nine Mile Point and Ginna are beginning initial planning studies for the potential development of independent spent fuel storage capacity. Nine Mile Points Unit 1 has sufficient storage capacity within the plant until 2011. Nine Mile Points Unit 2 has sufficient storage capacity within the plant until 2012. Ginna has sufficient storage capacity within the plant until 2010. Cost for Decommissioning Uranium Enrichment Facilities The Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires domestic nuclear utilities to contribute to a fund for decommissioning and decontaminating uranium enrichment facilities that had been operated by DOE. These contributions are generally payable over a 15 year period with escalation for inflation and are based upon the amount of uranium enriched by DOE for each utility through 1992. The 1992 Act provides that these costs are recoverable through utility service rates. BGE is solely responsible for these costs as they relate to Calvert Cliffs and made the last payment in 2006. The sellers of the Nine Mile Point plant and the Long Island Power Authority are responsible for the costs relating to the Nine Mile Point plant. The seller of Ginna is responsible for the costs related to that facility. Cost for Decommissioning We are obligated to decommission our nuclear plants at the time these plants cease operation. Every two years, the NRC requires us to demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available to decommission the sites. When BGE transferred all of its nuclear generating assets to our merchant energy business, it also transferred the trust fund established to pay for decommissioning Calvert Cliffs. At December 31, 2006, the Calvert Cliffs trust fund assets were $420.6 million. Under the Maryland Public Service Commissions (Maryland PSC) order regarding the deregulation of electric generation, BGE ratepayers must pay a total of $520 million, in 1993 dollars adjusted for inflation, to decommission Calvert Cliffs through fixed annual collections. In 2006, BGE received approval from the Maryland PSC to continue annual customer collections of approximately $18.7 million through December 31, 2016. BGE will be required to submit a filing to determine the level of customer contributions after December 31, 2016. 7 BGE is collecting this amount on behalf of Calvert Cliffs. Any costs to decommission Calvert Cliffs in excess of this $520 million must be paid by Calvert Cliffs. If BGE ratepayers have paid more than this amount at the time of decommissioning, Calvert Cliffs must refund the excess. If the cost to decommission Calvert Cliffs is less than the $520 million BGEs ratepayers are obligated to pay, Calvert Cliffs may keep the difference. As discussed in Baltimore Gas and Electric Company Provider of Last Resort section, Senate Bill 1, which was enacted in June 2006, requires BGE to provide credits to residential electric customers equal to the amount collected for decommissioning annually for 10 years beginning January 1, 2007. Under the provisions of Senate Bill 1 we are required to apply the collection of the nuclear decommissioning trust funds over the ten year period beginning January 1, 2007 toward the fulfillment of the decommissioning obligations of BGE ratepayers. The sellers of Nine Mile Point transferred a $441.7 million decommissioning trust fund to us at the time of sale. In return, we assumed all liability for the costs to decommission Unit 1 and 82% of the costs to decommission Unit 2. We believe that this amount is adequate to cover our responsibility for decommissioning Nine Mile Point to a greenfield status (restoration of the site so that it substantially matches the natural state of the surrounding properties and the sites intended use). At December 31, 2006, the Nine Mile Point trust fund assets were $572.8 million. The seller of Ginna transferred $200.8 million in decommissioning funds to us. In return, we assumed all liability for the costs to decommission the unit. We believe that this amount will be sufficient to cover our responsibility for decommissioning Ginna to a greenfield status. At December 31, 2006, the Ginna trust fund assets were $246.7 million. Coal We purchase the majority of our coal for electric generation under supply contracts with mining operators, and we acquire the remainder in the spot or forward coal markets. We believe that we will be able to renew supply contracts as they expire or enter into contracts with other coal suppliers. Our primary coal burning facilities have the following requirements: Approximate Annual Coal Requirement (tons) Special Coal Restrictions Brandon Shores Units 1 and 2 3,500,000 Sulfur content less than 1.20 lbs per (combined) mmBTU C. P. Crane Units 1 and 2 850,000 Low ash melting temperature (combined) H. A. Wagner Units 2 and 3 1,100,000 Sulfur content no more than 1% (combined) Coal deliveries to these facilities are made by rail and barge. Over the past few years, we expanded our coal sources including restructuring our rail contracts, increasing the range of coals we can consume, adding synthetic fuel as an alternate source, and finding potential other coal supply sources including shipments from various international sources. While we primarily use coal produced from mines located in central and northern Appalachia, we are capable of switching to imported coals to manage our coal supply. The timely delivery of coal together with the maintenance of appropriate levels of inventory is necessary to allow for continued, reliable generation from these facilities. All of the Conemaugh and Keystone plants annual coal requirements are purchased by the plant operators from regional suppliers on the open market. The sulfur restrictions on coal are approximately 2.3% for the Keystone plant and approximately 5.3% for the Conemaugh plant. The annual coal requirements for the ACE, Jasmin, and Poso plants, which are located in California, are supplied under contracts with mining operators. The Jasmin and Poso plants are restricted to coal with sulfur content less than 4.0% and ACE is restricted to less than 2.0%. All of our coal requirements reflect historical levels. The actual fuel quantities required can vary substantially from historical levels depending upon the relationship between energy prices and fuel costs, weather conditions, and operating requirements. Gas We purchase natural gas, storage capacity, and transportation, as necessary, for electric generation at certain plants. Some of our gas fired units can use residual fuel oil or distillates instead of gas. Gas is purchased under contracts with suppliers on the spot market and forward markets, including financial exchanges and bilateral agreements. The actual fuel quantities required can vary substantially from year to year depending upon the relationship between energy prices and fuel costs, weather conditions, and operating requirements. However, we believe that we will be able to obtain adequate quantities of gas to meet our requirements. Oil Under normal burn practices, our requirements for residual fuel oil (No. 6) amount to approximately 1.5 million to 2.0 million barrels of low sulfur oil per year. Deliveries of residual fuel oil are made from the suppliers Baltimore Harbor and Philadelphia marine terminals for distribution to the various generating plant locations. Also, based on normal burn practices, we require approximately 8.0 million to 11.0 million gallons of distillates (No. 2 oil and kerosene) annually, but these requirements can vary substantially from year 8 to year depending upon the relationship between energy prices and fuel costs, weather conditions, and operating requirements. Distillates are purchased from the suppliers Baltimore truck terminals for distribution to the various generating plant locations. We have contracts with various suppliers to purchase oil at spot prices, and for future delivery, to meet our requirements. Competition Market developments over the past several years have changed the nature of competition in the merchant energy business. Certain companies within the merchant energy sector have curtailed their activities or withdrawn completely from the business. However, new competitors (e.g., financial investors, banks and investment banks) have entered the market. We encounter competition from companies of various sizes, having varying levels of experience, financial and human resources, and differing strategies. We face competition in the market for energy, capacity, and ancillary services. In our merchant energy business, we compete with international, national, and regional full service energy providers, merchants, and producers to obtain competitively priced supplies from a variety of sources and locations, and to utilize efficient transmission, transportation, or storage. We principally compete on the basis of price, customer service, reliability, and availability of our products. With respect to power generation, we compete in the operation of energy producing projects, and our competitors in this business are both domestic and international organizations, including various utilities, industrial companies and independent power producers (including affiliates of utilities, financial investors, banks and investment banks), some of which have greater financial resources. States are considering different types of regulatory initiatives concerning competition in the power industry, which makes a competitive assessment difficult. Increased competition that resulted from some of these initiatives in several states contributed in some instances to a reduction in electricity prices and put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration of deregulation. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. We believe there is adequate growth potential in the current deregulated market and that further market changes could provide additional opportunities for our merchant energy business. In addition, our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation participates in global coal sourcing activities by providing coal for the variable or fixed supply needs of North American and international power generators. In addition, our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation includes upstream (exploitation and production) and downstream (transportation and storage) natural gas operations. As the market for commercial, industrial, and governmental supply continues to grow, we have experienced increased competition on a regional basis in our retail competitive supply activities. The increase in retail competition and the impact of wholesale power prices compared to the rates charged by local utilities has, in certain circumstances, reduced the margins that we realize from our customers. However, we believe that our experience and expertise in assessing and managing risk and our strong focus on customer service will help us to remain competitive during volatile or otherwise adverse market circumstances. Merchant Energy Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 $ 1,696.2 $ 1,415.1 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 463.3 433.2 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 2,567.7 312.7 Competitive Supply Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 2,703.9 540.7 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 45.1 56.4 Total Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 $ 7,476.2 $ 2,758.1 Generation (In millions) MWH* 59.1 60.2 55.3 51.6 44.7 * Includes output from gas fired plants until sale in December 2006. Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. The reclassifications primarily relate to operations that have been reflected as discontinued in the current year. 9 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company BGE is an electric transmission and distribution utility company and a gas distribution utility company with a service territory that covers the City of Baltimore and all or part of ten counties in central Maryland. BGE is regulated by the Maryland PSC and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) with respect to rates and other aspects of its business. BGEs electric service territory includes an area of approximately 2,300 square miles. There are no municipal or cooperative wholesale customers within BGEs service territory. BGEs gas service territory includes an area of approximately 800 square miles. BGEs electric and gas revenues come from many customers residential, commercial, and industrial. Electric Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition Deregulation Effective July 1, 2000, electric customer choice and competition among electric suppliers was implemented in Maryland. As a result of the deregulation of electric generation, all customers can choose their electric energy supplier. While BGE does not sell electric commodity to all customers in its service territory, BGE continues to deliver electricity to all customers and provides meter reading, billing, emergency response, and regular maintenance. Standard Offer Service BGE provided fixed price standard offer service to commercial and industrial customers through either June 30, 2002 or June 30, 2004, depending on customer type, and for residential customers through June 30, 2006. Upon the expiration of fixed price standard offer service, customers that continue to receive their electric supply from BGE are charged market based standard offer service rates (Provider of Last Resort rates). We discuss Provider of Last Resort (POLR) rates in more detail below. Provider of Last Resort BGE is obligated to provide market based standard offer service to all of its electric customers for varying periods. The POLR rates charged recover BGEs wholesale power supply costs and include an administrative fee. The administrative fee includes a shareholder return component and an incremental cost component. As a result of Senate Bill 1, beginning January 1, 2007, the shareholder return component of the administrative charge for residential POLR service was suspended. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in detail in the Residential Customers section. Bidding to supply BGEs market based standard offer service will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Successful bidders, which may include subsidiaries of Constellation Energy, will execute contracts with BGE for varying terms. Commercial and Industrial Customers BGE is obligated to provide market based standard offer service to commercial and industrial customers for varying periods beyond June 30, 2004, depending on customer load. In August 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order indefinitely extending the obligation of Maryland utilities to provide POLR service for those commercial and industrial customers for which market based standard offer service was scheduled to expire at the end of May 2007. The extended service will be provided on substantially the same terms as under the existing service, except that wholesale bidding for service to some customers will be conducted more frequently. BGEs obligation to provide market based standard offer service to its largest commercial and industrial customers expired on May 31, 2005. BGE continues to provide an hourly priced market based standard offer service to those customers. Residential Customers As a result of the November 1999 Maryland PSC order regarding the deregulation of electric generation in Maryland, BGEs residential electric base rates were frozen until July 2006. Subsequent orders of the Maryland PSC specified that BGE would procure the power to serve residential customers beginning July 2006 via auctions to be conducted in late 2005 and early 2006. The procured power costs of these auctions would have resulted in an average electric residential customer bill increase of 72%. In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: imposes rate stabilization measures that (i) cap rate increases by BGE for residential POLR service at 15% from July 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007, (ii) give residential POLR customers the option from June 1, 2007 until December 31, 2007 of paying a full market rate or choosing a short term rate stabilization plan in order to provide a smooth transition to market rates without adversely affecting the creditworthiness of BGE, and (iii) provide for full market rates for residential POLR service starting January 1, 2008; allows BGE to recover the costs deferred from July 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007 from its customers over a period not to exceed 10 years, on terms and conditions to be determined by the Maryland PSC, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs; 10 directs the Maryland PSC to investigate measures to mitigate the impact of residential rate increases on BGE customers, including by investigating the prior determination of and allowances for stranded costs that occurred when BGE transferred assets to its affiliates in 2000 and by requiring the Maryland PSC to provide funds to residential customers of BGE for mitigation of BGEs rate increases, including any adjustment in favor of BGEs customers to allowances for such stranded costs; and requires BGE to reduce residential electric rates by approximately $39 million per year for 10 years, beginning January 1, 2007, through suspension of the collection of the residential return component of the administrative charge for POLR service and a credit equal to the amount collected from BGE ratepayers for the nuclear decommissioning trust for Calvert Cliffs. We provide further details in the Cost for Decommissioning section. In August 2006, the Maryland PSC began its investigation into the general regulatory structure, agreements, orders, and other prior actions of the Maryland PSC under the Electric Customer Choice and Competition Act of 1999, including the determination of and allowances for stranded costs. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation, but it could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order that allows BGE to securitize its costs relating to the residential rate deferral through the issuance of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. Also in December 2006, in connection with implementing the $39 million in annual residential electric rate reductions discussed above, BGE and Calvert Cliffs notified the Maryland PSC that they had entered into a standstill agreement with the Attorney General of the State of Maryland with respect to potential challenges to the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to the reductions. In January 2007, BGE filed a proposed plan with the Maryland PSC that would allow residential electric customers to defer the transition to full market rates from June 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007. Under the proposed plan, electric rates for residential customers who elect this extended deferral would increase on June 1, 2007 by one half of the total increase remaining to reach full market rates on January 1, 2008. We estimate that electric rates for residential electric customers under this plan will be approximately 20 25% higher on June 1, 2007 compared to current residential electric rates. This estimate may differ from the actual increase on June 1, 2007 based on BGEs actual procured power cost, which will be determined in April 2007 via auctions. Customers who choose to defer would repay the deferred amounts over a two year period starting January 1, 2008, at which time these customers would transition to full market rates. The proposed plan remains subject to Maryland PSC approval. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss other aspects of Senate Bill 1 in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Business Environment Senate Bill 1 section. We discuss the market risk of our regulated electric business in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Risk section. Electric Load Management BGE has implemented various programs for use when system operating conditions or market economics indicate that a reduction in load would be beneficial. We refer to these programs as active load management programs. These programs include: two options for commercial and industrial customers to voluntarily reduce their electric loads, air conditioning control for residential and commercial customers, and residential water heater control. These programs generally take effect on summer days when demand and or wholesale prices are relatively high and had the capability during the 2006 summer to reduce load up to approximately 233 MW. Transmission and Distribution Facilities BGE maintains approximately 250 substations and 1,300 circuit miles of transmission lines throughout central Maryland. BGE also maintains approximately 23,900 circuit miles of distribution lines. The transmission facilities are connected to those of neighboring utility systems as part of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff and various agreements, BGE and other market participants can use regional transmission facilities for energy, capacity, and ancillary services transactions including emergency assistance. We discuss various FERC initiatives relating to wholesale electric markets in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Federal Regulation section. 11 Electric Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential $ 1,092.1 $ 1,066.6 $ 1,015.8 $ 959.0 $ 946.6 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 733.4 722.1 708.9 694.2 776.0 Delivery Service Only 149.4 107.5 78.6 66.1 33.5 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 46.8 52.8 92.3 137.0 158.7 Delivery Service Only 26.2 28.0 21.3 18.2 10.9 System Sales and Deliveries 2,047.9 1,977.0 1,916.9 1,874.5 1,925.7 Other (A) 68.0 59.5 50.8 47.1 40.3 Total $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 $ 1,921.6 $ 1,966.0 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) MWH Residential 12,886 13,762 13,313 12,754 12,652 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 6,325 7,847 9,286 9,937 11,840 Delivery Service Only 9,392 7,967 5,767 4,982 2,762 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 467 614 1,429 2,556 3,478 Delivery Service Only 2,988 3,122 2,562 1,780 997 Total 32,058 33,312 32,357 32,009 31,729 Customers (In thousands) Residential 1,093.3 1,084.1 1,072.1 1,061.7 1,052.3 Commercial 115.5 114.7 113.6 112.1 110.8 Industrial 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.9 4.9 Total 1,214.0 1,203.8 1,190.5 1,178.7 1,168.0 (A) Primarily includes network integration transmission service revenues, late payment charges, miscellaneous service fees, and tower leasing revenues. Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 12 Gas Business The wholesale price of natural gas as a commodity is not subject to regulation. All BGE gas customers have the option to purchase gas from alternative suppliers, including subsidiaries of Constellation Energy. BGE continues to deliver gas to all customers within its service territory. This delivery service is regulated by the Maryland PSC. BGE also provides customers with meter reading, billing, emergency response, regular maintenance, and balancing services. Approximately 50% of the gas delivered on BGEs distribution system is for customers that purchase gas from alternative suppliers. These customers are charged fees to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver the customers gas through our distribution system. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. For customers that buy their gas from BGE, there is a market based rates incentive mechanism. Under this market based rates incentive mechanism, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. BGE must secure fixed price contracts for at least 10%, but not more than 20%, of forecasted system supply requirements for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are not subject to sharing under the market based rates incentive mechanism. BGE purchases the natural gas it resells to customers directly from many producers and marketers. BGE has transportation and storage agreements that expire from 2007 to 2028. BGEs current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve BGEs firm loads are 313,053 dekatherms (DTH) per day. BGEs current maximum storage entitlements are 235,080 DTH per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has: a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,092,977 DTH and a daily capacity of 311,500 DTH, and a propane air facility with a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 564,200 DTH and a daily capacity of 85,000 DTH. BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short term contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of short term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand. BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off system sales. Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance our supply of, and cost of, natural gas. 13 Gas Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only $ 490.2 $ 558.5 $ 478.0 $ 444.5 $ 342.1 Delivery Service Only 20.6 23.2 14.2 13.6 16.5 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 148.9 174.4 135.4 128.6 89.4 Delivery Service Only 35.9 31.9 28.0 24.6 29.2 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 7.5 10.5 9.4 11.5 9.3 Delivery Service Only 19.3 12.4 7.8 11.4 13.9 System Sales and Deliveries 722.4 810.9 672.8 634.2 500.4 Off System Sales 168.6 154.7 77.2 84.8 74.8 Other 8.5 7.2 7.0 7.0 6.1 Total $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 $ 726.0 $ 581.3 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) DTH Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only 33,019 39,107 39,080 40,894 35,364 Delivery Service Only 3,948 5,423 6,053 6,640 6,404 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 11,683 14,133 13,248 13,895 11,583 Delivery Service Only 25,695 28,993 34,120 29,138 28,429 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 604 921 865 1,143 1,207 Delivery Service Only 20,325 19,357 14,310 18,399 23,689 System Sales and Deliveries 95,274 107,934 107,676 110,109 106,676 Off System Sales 19,738 17,209 9,914 12,859 18,551 Total 115,012 125,143 117,590 122,968 125,227 Customers (In thousands) Residential 597.1 590.9 582.0 575.2 567.3 Commercial 42.3 42.0 41.6 41.1 40.7 Industrial 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.3 Total 640.6 634.1 624.8 617.5 609.3 Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 14 Franchises BGE has nonexclusive electric and gas franchises to use streets and other highways that are adequate and sufficient to permit them to engage in their present business. Conditions of the franchises are satisfactory. Other Nonregulated Businesses Energy Projects and Services We offer energy projects and services designed primarily to provide energy solutions to large commercial and industrial and governmental customers. These energy products and services include: designing, constructing, and operating heating, cooling, and cogeneration facilities, energy savings projects and performance contracting, energy consulting and procurement services , services to enhance the reliability of individual electric supply systems, and customized financing alternatives. Home Products and Gas Retail Marketing We offer services to customers in Maryland including: home improvements, the service of heating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, and indoor air quality systems, and the sale of natural gas to residential customers. Consolidated Capital Requirements Our total capital requirements for 2006 were $1,149 million. Of this amount, $789 million was used in our nonregulated businesses and $360 million was used in our regulated business. We estimate our total capital requirements will be $1,915 million in 2007. We continuously review and change our capital expenditure programs, so actual expenditures may vary from the estimate above. We discuss our capital requirements further in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Capital Resources section. Environmental Matters The development (involving site selection, environmental assessments, and permitting), construction, acquisition, and operation of electric generating and distribution facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and land use laws and regulations. From the beginning phases of development to the ongoing operation of existing or new electric generating and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse laws and regulations that address emissions and impacts to air and water, protection of natural and cultural resources, and chemical and waste handling and disposal. We continuously monitor federal, state, and local environmental initiatives to determine potential impacts on our financial results. As new laws or regulations are promulgated, we assess their applicability and implement the necessary modifications to our facilities or their operation to maintain ongoing compliance. Our capital expenditures were approximately $100 million during the five year period 2002 2006 to comply with existing environmental standards and regulations. Our estimated environmental capital requirements for the next three years are approximately $335 million in 2007, $495 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2009. Air Quality Federal The Clean Air Act created the basic framework for the federal and state regulation of air pollution. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) The NAAQS are federal air quality standards authorized under the Clean Air Act that establish maximum ambient air concentrations for the following specific pollutants: ozone (smog), carbon monoxide, lead, particulates, sulfur dioxides (SO2), and nitrogen dioxides (NO2). In order for states to achieve compliance with the NAAQS, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005 to further reduce ozone and fine particulate pollution by addressing the interstate transport of SO2 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from fossil fuel fired generating facilities located primarily in the Eastern United States. In May 2005, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for ozone and rescinded a requirement to impose fees on emissions sources in certain areas, including certain of our generating facilities, for failure to achieve the previous ozone standard. States will be required to submit plans to the EPA to meet the new standard by 2007, at which time the standard will take effect. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for ozone will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. In December 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the requirement to impose fees on emissions sources based on the previous ozone standard remained applicable retroactive to November 2005 and remanded the issue to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict what action the EPA will take in response to the Courts decision and whether the fees will be retroactively assessed. The exact method of computing these fees has not been established and will depend in part on state implementation regulations that have not been finalized. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the ultimate financial impact of the fees in light of the uncertainty surrounding the methodology that 15 will be used in calculating the fees. However, any fees that are ultimately assessed could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. In September 2006, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for particulate matter. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for particulate matter will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. Hazardous Air Emissions In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) to reduce the emissions of mercury from coal fired facilities through a market based cap and trade program. CAMR will affect all coal or waste coal fired boilers at our generating facilities. New Source Review In connection with its enforcement of the Clean Air Acts new source review requirements, in 2000, the EPA requested information relating to modifications made to our Brandon Shores, Crane, and Wagner plants located in Maryland. The EPA also sent similar, but narrower, information requests to two of our newer Pennsylvania waste coal burning plants in which we have an ownership interest. We responded to the EPA in 2001, and as of the date of this report the EPA has taken no further action. Based on the level of emissions control that the EPA and states are seeking in these new source review enforcement actions, we believe that material additional costs and penalties could be incurred, and planned capital expenditures could be accelerated, if the EPA was successful in any future actions regarding our facilities. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia annulled the equipment replacement rule adopted by the EPA in August 2003, which established a threshold for determining when major new source review requirements are triggered. We believe the Court decision, which was anticipated, should have minimal effect on us as it maintains the existing rules for equipment replacement. However, we anticipate that the EPA will continue to examine the existing equipment replacement rules and may again propose new rules. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case, not involving us, relating to the new source review requirements. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of any future EPA regulatory action or the outcome of the U.S. Supreme Court proceeding, or their possible effect on our financial results. State Maryland has adopted the Healthy Air Act (HAA) and the Clean Power Rule (CPR), which establish annual SO2, NOx, and mercury emission caps for specific coal fired units in Maryland, including units located at three of our facilities. The requirements of the HAA and the CPR for SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions are more stringent and apply sooner than those under CAIR and CAMR. In addition, Pennsylvania has adopted regulations requiring coal fired generating facilities located in Pennsylvania to reduce mercury emissions sooner and to a greater extent than required under CAMR. Several other states in the northeastern U.S. continue to consider more stringent and earlier SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions reductions than those required under CAIR or CAMR. Capital Expenditure Estimates We expect to incur additional environmental capital spending as a result of complying with the air quality laws and regulations discussed above. Based on the information currently available to us about CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR, we will install additional air emission control equipment at our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at our co owned coal fired facilities in Pennsylvania to meet air quality standards. We include in our estimated environmental capital requirements capital spending for these projects, which we expect will be approximately $320 million in 2007, $470 million in 2008, $290 million in 2009 and $40 million from 2010 2011. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any additional federal and or state regulations or legislation, the implementation timetables for such regulation or legislation, and the specific amount of emissions reductions that will be required at our facilities. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope or timing of these projects with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. In addition, CAMR is subject to legal challenges filed by the states and industry and environmental groups. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these challenges, or their possible effect on our financial results. We believe that the additional air emission control equipment we plan to install will meet the emission reduction requirements under CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR. If additional emission reductions still are required, we will assess our various compliance alternatives and their related costs, and although we cannot yet estimate the additional costs we may incur, such costs could be material. 16 Global Climate Change Although uncertainty remains as to the nature and timing of greenhouse gas emissions regulation, there is an increasing likelihood that such regulation will occur at the federal and or state level. In the event that greenhouse gas emissions reduction legislation or regulations are enacted, we will assess our various compliance alternatives, which may include installation of additional environmental controls, modification of operating schedules or the closure of one or more of our coal fired generating facilities. Any compliance costs we incur could have a material impact on our financial results. The HAA requires that Maryland become a full participant in the Northeast Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) by June 2007. Under RGGI, it is expected that affected plants would participate in an auction to obtain sufficient CO2 allowances to support the level of emissions that result from plant operations. In addition, California has adopted regulations requiring our generating facilities in California to submit greenhouse gas emissions data to the state, which the state intends to use to develop a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the HAA and California CO2 emissions requirements and RGGI participation on our financial results; however, our compliance costs could be material. Water Quality The Clean Water Act established the basic framework for federal and state regulation of water pollution control and requires facilities that discharge waste or storm water into the waters of the United States to obtain permits. Water Intake Regulations In July 2004, the EPA published final rules under the Clean Water Act that require cooling water intake structures to reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts. We currently have six facilities affected by the regulation. The rule allows for a number of compliance options that will be assessed through 2007, following which we will determine whether any action is required and what our most viable options are if any action is required. Until we determine our most viable option under the final rules, we cannot estimate our compliance costs. However, the costs associated with the final rules could be material. In January 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that the EPAs rule did not properly implement the Clean Water Act requirements in a number of areas and remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any EPA regulatory action taken in response to the courts decision. However, any such action could impact our compliance approach, which could have a material effect on our financial results. Hazardous and Solid Waste We discuss proceedings relating to compliance with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our coal fired generating facilities produce approximately two and a half million tons of combustion by products (ash) each year. The EPA has announced its intention to develop national standards, currently scheduled to be proposed in May 2007, to regulate this material as a non hazardous waste, and is developing regulations governing the placement of ash in landfills, surface impoundments, and sand/gravel surface mines. The EPA is also developing regulations for ash placement in coal mines, which are expected to be proposed in October 2007. Federal regulation has the potential to result in additional requirements. Depending on the scope of any final requirements, our compliance costs could be material. As a result of these regulatory proposals, the remaining ash placement capacity at our current mine reclamation site and our current ash generation projections, we are exploring our options for the placement of ash, including construction of an ash placement facility. Over the next five years, we estimate that our capital expenditures for this project will be approximately $75 million. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any regulatory change, its implementation timetable, and the scope of the final requirements. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope and timing of this project with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. Employees Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 9,645 employees at December 31, 2006. At the Nine Mile Point facility, approximately 515 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 97. The labor contract with this union expires in June 2011. We believe that our relationship with this union is satisfactory, but there can be no assurances that this will continue to be the case. 17 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as counterparties). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured partys nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGEs recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGEs distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGEs, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGEs, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGEs, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Item 2. Properties Constellation Energys corporate offices occupy approximately 106,000 square feet of leased office space in Baltimore, Maryland. The corporate offices for most of our merchant energy business occupy approximately 268,000 square feet of leased office space in another building in Baltimore, Maryland. We describe our electric generation properties on the next page. We also have leases for other offices and services located in the Baltimore metropolitan region, and for various real property and facilities relating to our generation projects. BGE owns its principal headquarters building located in downtown Baltimore. In addition, BGE owns propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as discussed in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. BGE also has rights of way to maintain 26 inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expired in 2004. BGE is in the process of renewing the rights of way with Baltimore City for an additional 25 years. The expiration of the rights of way does not affect BGEs ability to use the rights of way during the renewal process. BGE has electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines located: in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises, and on rights of way secured for the most part by grants from owners of the property. All of BGEs property is subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage securing its mortgage bonds. The generation facilities transferred to our subsidiaries by BGE on July 1, 2000, along with the stock we own in certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage. We believe we have satisfactory title to our power project facilities in accordance with standards generally accepted in the energy industry, subject to exceptions, which in our opinion, would not have a material adverse effect on the use or value of the facilities. Our merchant energy business owns several natural gas producing properties. We also lease office space throughout North America, and in the United Kingdom and Australia to support our merchant energy business. 22 The following table describes our generating facilities: Plant Location Capacity (MW) % Owned Capacity Owned (MW) Primary Fuel (at December 31, 2006) Mid Atlantic Region Calvert Cliffs Calvert Co., MD 1,735 100.0 1,735 Nuclear Brandon Shores Anne Arundel Co., MD 1,286 100.0 1,286 Coal H. A. Wagner Anne Arundel Co., MD 963 100.0 963 Coal/Oil/Gas C. P. Crane Baltimore Co., MD 399 100.0 399 Oil/Coal Keystone Armstrong and Indiana Cos., PA 1,706 21.0 358 (A) Coal Conemaugh Indiana Co., PA 1,714 10.6 181 (A) Coal Perryman Harford Co., MD 355 100.0 355 Oil/Gas Riverside Baltimore Co., MD 200 100.0 200 Oil/Gas Handsome Lake Rockland Twp, PA 250 100.0 250 Gas Notch Cliff Baltimore Co., MD 120 100.0 120 Gas Westport Baltimore City, MD 116 100.0 116 Gas Philadelphia Road Baltimore City, MD 64 100.0 64 Oil Safe Harbor Safe Harbor, PA 417 66.7 278 Hydro Total Mid Atlantic Region 9,325 6,305 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements Nine Mile Point Unit 1 Scriba, NY 620 100.0 620 Nuclear Nine Mile Point Unit 2 Scriba, NY 1,138 82.0 933 Nuclear R.E. Ginna Ontario, NY 581 100.0 581 Nuclear Total Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2,339 2,134 Other Panther Creek Nesquehoning, PA 80 50.0 40 Waste Coal Colver Colver Township, PA 104 25.0 26 Waste Coal Sunnyside Sunnyside, UT 52 50.0 26 Waste Coal ACE Trona, CA 102 31.1 32 Coal Jasmin Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal POSO Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal Mammoth Lakes G 1 Mammoth Lakes, CA 6 50.0 3 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 2 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 3 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Soda Lake I Fallon, NV 4 50.0 2 Geothermal Soda Lake II Fallon, NV 10 50.0 5 Geothermal Rocklin Placer Co., CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Fresno Fresno, CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Chinese Station Jamestown, CA 22 45.0 10 Biomass Malacha Muck Valley, CA 32 50.0 16 Hydro SEGS IV Kramer Junction, CA 33 12.2 4 Solar SEGS V Kramer Junction, CA 24 4.2 1 Solar SEGS VI Kramer Junction, CA 34 8.8 3 Solar Total Other 643 238 Total Generating Facilities 12,307 8,677 (A) Reflects our proportionate interest in and entitlement to capacity from Keystone and Conemaugh, which include 2 MW of diesel capacity for Keystone and 1 MW of diesel capacity for Conemaugh. 23 The following table describes our processing facilities: Plant Location % Owned Primary Fuel A/C Fuels Hazelton, PA 50.0 Waste Coal Processing Gary PCI Gary, IN 24.5 Coal Processing Low Country Cross, SC 99.0 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel VA I Norton, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV I Chelyan, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV II Mount Storm, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV III Chester, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing Item 3. Legal Proceedings We discuss our legal proceedings in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders On December 8, 2006, we held our annual meeting of shareholders. At that meeting, the following matters were voted upon: 1. Class I Directors nominated by Constellation Energy were elected to serve for a term to expire in 2009 and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as follows: COMMON SHARES CAST: For Withheld Douglas L. Becker 119,241,432 14,048,574 Edward A. Crooke 122,520,333 10,769,673 Mayo A. Shattuck III 128,640,389 4,649,617 Michael D. Sullivan 119,327,025 13,962,981 All other directors whose term of office continued after the date of this meeting are: James T. Brady Freeman A. Hrabowski, III James R. Curtiss Nancy Lampton Yves C. de Balmann Robert J. Lawless Lynn M. Martin 2. The ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2006 was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 130,005,402, the number of votes cast against was 1,846,861, and the number of abstentions was 1,437,743. 3. The shareholder proposal requesting Constellation Energy to declassify the Board of Directors was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 76,259,034, the number of votes cast against was 7,688,559, the number of abstentions was 26,748,840, and the number of broker non votes was 22,593,573. 24 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Present Office Other Offices or Positions Held During Past Five Years Mayo A. Shattuck III 52 Chairman of the Board of Constellation Energy (since July 2002), President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy (since November 2001); and Chairman of the Board of BGE (since July 2002) None. E. Follin Smith 47 Executive Vice President (since January 2004), Chief Financial Officer (since June 2001) and Chief Administrative Officer (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (since January 2002) Senior Vice President Constellation Energy. Thomas V. Brooks 44 Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); and Vice Chairman (since August 2005) and Executive Vice President (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy President and Chief Executive Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Michael J. Wallace 59 President (since January 2002) and Chief Executive Officer (since May 2005) of Constellation Generation Group, LLC; and Executive Vice President of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) None. Thomas F. Brady 57 Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy. Irving B. Yoskowitz 61 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Constellation Energy (since June 2005) Senior Counsel Crowell & Moring (law firm); and Senior Partner Global Technology Partners, LLC (investment banking and consulting firm). Felix J. Dawson 39 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since May 2006) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. 25 George E. Persky 37 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Kenneth W. DeFontes, Jr. 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2004) Vice President, Electric Transmission and Distribution BGE. Paul J. Allen 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Corporate Affairs Constellation Energy. John R. Collins 49 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Risk Officer of Constellation Energy (since December 2001); and member of Board of Managers of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since September 2006) Vice President Constellation Energy. Beth S. Perlman 46 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Information Officer of Constellation Energy (since April 2002) Vice President Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Technology Enron Corporation. Marc L. Ugol 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Human Resources Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Tellabs, Inc. Officers are elected by, and hold office at the will of, the Board of Directors and do not serve a term of office as such. There is no arrangement or understanding between any director or officer and any other person pursuant to which the director or officer was selected. 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Stock Trading Constellation Energys common stock is traded under the ticker symbol CEG. It is listed on the New York and Chicago stock exchanges. As of January 31, 2007, there were 41,680 common shareholders of record. Dividend Policy Constellation Energy pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on Constellation Energy paying common stock dividends. Dividends have been paid continuously since 1910 on the common stock of Constellation Energy, BGE, and their predecessors. Future dividends depend upon future earnings, our financial condition, and other factors. In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.3775 to $0.435 per share payable April 2, 2007 to holders of record on March 12, 2007. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Quarterly dividends were declared on our common stock during 2006 and 2005 in the amounts set forth below. BGE pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on BGE paying common stock dividends unless: BGE elects to defer interest payments on the 6.20% Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures due 2043, and any deferred interest remains unpaid; or any dividends (and any redemption payments) due on BGEs preference stock have not been paid. Common Stock Dividends and Price Ranges 2006 2005 Dividend Price Dividend Price Declared High Low Declared High Low First Quarter $ 0.3775 $ 60.55 $ 54.01 $ 0.335 $ 53.55 $ 43.01 Second Quarter 0.3775 55.68 50.55 0.335 57.91 50.36 Third Quarter 0.3775 60.79 53.70 0.335 62.09 56.50 Fourth Quarter 0.3775 70.20 59.00 0.335 62.60 50.40 Total $ 1.51 $ 1.340 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The following table presents shares surrendered by employees to exercise stock options and to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock and stock option exercises. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid for Shares Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans and Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 565 $ 60.43 November 1 November 30, 2006 December 1 December 31, 2006 2,483 68.61 Total 3,048 $ 67.09 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Constellation Energy Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002(1) (In millions, except per share amounts) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 19,284.9 $ 16,968.3 $ 12,127.2 $ 9,342.8 $ 4,771.6 Total Expenses 18,025.2 16,023.8 11,209.1 8,395.5 3,711.5 Gain on Sale of Gas Fired Plants 73.8 Income From Operations 1,333.5 944.5 918.1 947.3 1,060.1 Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC 28.7 Other Income 66.1 65.5 25.5 20.6 33.8 Fixed Charges 328.7 310.2 326.8 336.3 277.3 Income Before Income Taxes 1,099.6 699.8 616.8 631.6 816.6 Income Taxes 351.0 163.9 118.4 222.2 301.2 Income from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 409.4 515.4 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes 187.8 94.4 41.3 66.3 10.2 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net of Income Taxes (7.2 ) (198.4 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 $ 277.3 $ 525.6 Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles Assuming Dilution $ 4.12 $ 2.98 $ 2.88 $ 2.45 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations 1.04 0.53 0.24 0.40 0.06 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles (0.04 ) (1.19 ) Earnings Per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 5.16 $ 3.47 $ 3.12 $ 1.66 $ 3.20 Dividends Declared Per Common Share $ 1.51 $ 1.34 $ 1.14 $ 1.04 $ 0.96 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 21,801.6 $ 21,473.9 $ 17,347.1 $ 15,593.0 $ 14,943.3 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 878.8 $ 491.3 $ 480.4 $ 343.2 $ 426.2 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 4,222.3 $ 4,369.3 $ 4,813.2 $ 5,039.2 $ 4,613.9 Minority Interests 94.5 22.4 90.9 113.4 105.3 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 4,609.3 4,915.5 4,726.9 4,140.5 3,862.3 Total Capitalization $ 9,116.1 $ 9,497.2 $ 9,821.0 $ 9,483.1 $ 8,771.5 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 4.05 3.04 2.71 2.69 3.31 Book Value Per Share of Common Stock $ 25.54 $ 27.57 $ 26.81 $ 24.68 $ 23.44 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. (1) Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 include $255.5 million of gains recognized on the sale of our outstanding shares of Orion Power Holdings, Inc. We discuss items that affect comparability between years, including acquisitions and dispositions, accounting changes and other items, in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Business Environment Senate Bill 1 section. We discuss the market risk of our regulated electric business in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Risk section. Electric Load Management BGE has implemented various programs for use when system operating conditions or market economics indicate that a reduction in load would be beneficial. We refer to these programs as active load management programs. These programs include: two options for commercial and industrial customers to voluntarily reduce their electric loads, air conditioning control for residential and commercial customers, and residential water heater control. These programs generally take effect on summer days when demand and or wholesale prices are relatively high and had the capability during the 2006 summer to reduce load up to approximately 233 MW. Transmission and Distribution Facilities BGE maintains approximately 250 substations and 1,300 circuit miles of transmission lines throughout central Maryland. BGE also maintains approximately 23,900 circuit miles of distribution lines. The transmission facilities are connected to those of neighboring utility systems as part of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff and various agreements, BGE and other market participants can use regional transmission facilities for energy, capacity, and ancillary services transactions including emergency assistance. We discuss various FERC initiatives relating to wholesale electric markets in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Federal Regulation section. 11 Electric Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential $ 1,092.1 $ 1,066.6 $ 1,015.8 $ 959.0 $ 946.6 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 733.4 722.1 708.9 694.2 776.0 Delivery Service Only 149.4 107.5 78.6 66.1 33.5 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 46.8 52.8 92.3 137.0 158.7 Delivery Service Only 26.2 28.0 21.3 18.2 10.9 System Sales and Deliveries 2,047.9 1,977.0 1,916.9 1,874.5 1,925.7 Other (A) 68.0 59.5 50.8 47.1 40.3 Total $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 $ 1,921.6 $ 1,966.0 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) MWH Residential 12,886 13,762 13,313 12,754 12,652 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 6,325 7,847 9,286 9,937 11,840 Delivery Service Only 9,392 7,967 5,767 4,982 2,762 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 467 614 1,429 2,556 3,478 Delivery Service Only 2,988 3,122 2,562 1,780 997 Total 32,058 33,312 32,357 32,009 31,729 Customers (In thousands) Residential 1,093.3 1,084.1 1,072.1 1,061.7 1,052.3 Commercial 115.5 114.7 113.6 112.1 110.8 Industrial 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.9 4.9 Total 1,214.0 1,203.8 1,190.5 1,178.7 1,168.0 (A) Primarily includes network integration transmission service revenues, late payment charges, miscellaneous service fees, and tower leasing revenues. Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 12 Gas Business The wholesale price of natural gas as a commodity is not subject to regulation. All BGE gas customers have the option to purchase gas from alternative suppliers, including subsidiaries of Constellation Energy. BGE continues to deliver gas to all customers within its service territory. This delivery service is regulated by the Maryland PSC. BGE also provides customers with meter reading, billing, emergency response, regular maintenance, and balancing services. Approximately 50% of the gas delivered on BGEs distribution system is for customers that purchase gas from alternative suppliers. These customers are charged fees to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver the customers gas through our distribution system. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. For customers that buy their gas from BGE, there is a market based rates incentive mechanism. Under this market based rates incentive mechanism, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. BGE must secure fixed price contracts for at least 10%, but not more than 20%, of forecasted system supply requirements for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are not subject to sharing under the market based rates incentive mechanism. BGE purchases the natural gas it resells to customers directly from many producers and marketers. BGE has transportation and storage agreements that expire from 2007 to 2028. BGEs current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve BGEs firm loads are 313,053 dekatherms (DTH) per day. BGEs current maximum storage entitlements are 235,080 DTH per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has: a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,092,977 DTH and a daily capacity of 311,500 DTH, and a propane air facility with a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 564,200 DTH and a daily capacity of 85,000 DTH. BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short term contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of short term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand. BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off system sales. Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance our supply of, and cost of, natural gas. 13 Gas Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only $ 490.2 $ 558.5 $ 478.0 $ 444.5 $ 342.1 Delivery Service Only 20.6 23.2 14.2 13.6 16.5 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 148.9 174.4 135.4 128.6 89.4 Delivery Service Only 35.9 31.9 28.0 24.6 29.2 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 7.5 10.5 9.4 11.5 9.3 Delivery Service Only 19.3 12.4 7.8 11.4 13.9 System Sales and Deliveries 722.4 810.9 672.8 634.2 500.4 Off System Sales 168.6 154.7 77.2 84.8 74.8 Other 8.5 7.2 7.0 7.0 6.1 Total $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 $ 726.0 $ 581.3 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) DTH Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only 33,019 39,107 39,080 40,894 35,364 Delivery Service Only 3,948 5,423 6,053 6,640 6,404 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 11,683 14,133 13,248 13,895 11,583 Delivery Service Only 25,695 28,993 34,120 29,138 28,429 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 604 921 865 1,143 1,207 Delivery Service Only 20,325 19,357 14,310 18,399 23,689 System Sales and Deliveries 95,274 107,934 107,676 110,109 106,676 Off System Sales 19,738 17,209 9,914 12,859 18,551 Total 115,012 125,143 117,590 122,968 125,227 Customers (In thousands) Residential 597.1 590.9 582.0 575.2 567.3 Commercial 42.3 42.0 41.6 41.1 40.7 Industrial 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.3 Total 640.6 634.1 624.8 617.5 609.3 Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 14 Franchises BGE has nonexclusive electric and gas franchises to use streets and other highways that are adequate and sufficient to permit them to engage in their present business. Conditions of the franchises are satisfactory. Other Nonregulated Businesses Energy Projects and Services We offer energy projects and services designed primarily to provide energy solutions to large commercial and industrial and governmental customers. These energy products and services include: designing, constructing, and operating heating, cooling, and cogeneration facilities, energy savings projects and performance contracting, energy consulting and procurement services , services to enhance the reliability of individual electric supply systems, and customized financing alternatives. Home Products and Gas Retail Marketing We offer services to customers in Maryland including: home improvements, the service of heating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, and indoor air quality systems, and the sale of natural gas to residential customers. Consolidated Capital Requirements Our total capital requirements for 2006 were $1,149 million. Of this amount, $789 million was used in our nonregulated businesses and $360 million was used in our regulated business. We estimate our total capital requirements will be $1,915 million in 2007. We continuously review and change our capital expenditure programs, so actual expenditures may vary from the estimate above. We discuss our capital requirements further in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Capital Resources section. Environmental Matters The development (involving site selection, environmental assessments, and permitting), construction, acquisition, and operation of electric generating and distribution facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and land use laws and regulations. From the beginning phases of development to the ongoing operation of existing or new electric generating and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse laws and regulations that address emissions and impacts to air and water, protection of natural and cultural resources, and chemical and waste handling and disposal. We continuously monitor federal, state, and local environmental initiatives to determine potential impacts on our financial results. As new laws or regulations are promulgated, we assess their applicability and implement the necessary modifications to our facilities or their operation to maintain ongoing compliance. Our capital expenditures were approximately $100 million during the five year period 2002 2006 to comply with existing environmental standards and regulations. Our estimated environmental capital requirements for the next three years are approximately $335 million in 2007, $495 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2009. Air Quality Federal The Clean Air Act created the basic framework for the federal and state regulation of air pollution. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) The NAAQS are federal air quality standards authorized under the Clean Air Act that establish maximum ambient air concentrations for the following specific pollutants: ozone (smog), carbon monoxide, lead, particulates, sulfur dioxides (SO2), and nitrogen dioxides (NO2). In order for states to achieve compliance with the NAAQS, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005 to further reduce ozone and fine particulate pollution by addressing the interstate transport of SO2 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from fossil fuel fired generating facilities located primarily in the Eastern United States. In May 2005, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for ozone and rescinded a requirement to impose fees on emissions sources in certain areas, including certain of our generating facilities, for failure to achieve the previous ozone standard. States will be required to submit plans to the EPA to meet the new standard by 2007, at which time the standard will take effect. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for ozone will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. In December 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the requirement to impose fees on emissions sources based on the previous ozone standard remained applicable retroactive to November 2005 and remanded the issue to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict what action the EPA will take in response to the Courts decision and whether the fees will be retroactively assessed. The exact method of computing these fees has not been established and will depend in part on state implementation regulations that have not been finalized. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the ultimate financial impact of the fees in light of the uncertainty surrounding the methodology that 15 will be used in calculating the fees. However, any fees that are ultimately assessed could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. In September 2006, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for particulate matter. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for particulate matter will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. Hazardous Air Emissions In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) to reduce the emissions of mercury from coal fired facilities through a market based cap and trade program. CAMR will affect all coal or waste coal fired boilers at our generating facilities. New Source Review In connection with its enforcement of the Clean Air Acts new source review requirements, in 2000, the EPA requested information relating to modifications made to our Brandon Shores, Crane, and Wagner plants located in Maryland. The EPA also sent similar, but narrower, information requests to two of our newer Pennsylvania waste coal burning plants in which we have an ownership interest. We responded to the EPA in 2001, and as of the date of this report the EPA has taken no further action. Based on the level of emissions control that the EPA and states are seeking in these new source review enforcement actions, we believe that material additional costs and penalties could be incurred, and planned capital expenditures could be accelerated, if the EPA was successful in any future actions regarding our facilities. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia annulled the equipment replacement rule adopted by the EPA in August 2003, which established a threshold for determining when major new source review requirements are triggered. We believe the Court decision, which was anticipated, should have minimal effect on us as it maintains the existing rules for equipment replacement. However, we anticipate that the EPA will continue to examine the existing equipment replacement rules and may again propose new rules. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case, not involving us, relating to the new source review requirements. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of any future EPA regulatory action or the outcome of the U.S. Supreme Court proceeding, or their possible effect on our financial results. State Maryland has adopted the Healthy Air Act (HAA) and the Clean Power Rule (CPR), which establish annual SO2, NOx, and mercury emission caps for specific coal fired units in Maryland, including units located at three of our facilities. The requirements of the HAA and the CPR for SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions are more stringent and apply sooner than those under CAIR and CAMR. In addition, Pennsylvania has adopted regulations requiring coal fired generating facilities located in Pennsylvania to reduce mercury emissions sooner and to a greater extent than required under CAMR. Several other states in the northeastern U.S. continue to consider more stringent and earlier SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions reductions than those required under CAIR or CAMR. Capital Expenditure Estimates We expect to incur additional environmental capital spending as a result of complying with the air quality laws and regulations discussed above. Based on the information currently available to us about CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR, we will install additional air emission control equipment at our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at our co owned coal fired facilities in Pennsylvania to meet air quality standards. We include in our estimated environmental capital requirements capital spending for these projects, which we expect will be approximately $320 million in 2007, $470 million in 2008, $290 million in 2009 and $40 million from 2010 2011. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any additional federal and or state regulations or legislation, the implementation timetables for such regulation or legislation, and the specific amount of emissions reductions that will be required at our facilities. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope or timing of these projects with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. In addition, CAMR is subject to legal challenges filed by the states and industry and environmental groups. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these challenges, or their possible effect on our financial results. We believe that the additional air emission control equipment we plan to install will meet the emission reduction requirements under CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR. If additional emission reductions still are required, we will assess our various compliance alternatives and their related costs, and although we cannot yet estimate the additional costs we may incur, such costs could be material. 16 Global Climate Change Although uncertainty remains as to the nature and timing of greenhouse gas emissions regulation, there is an increasing likelihood that such regulation will occur at the federal and or state level. In the event that greenhouse gas emissions reduction legislation or regulations are enacted, we will assess our various compliance alternatives, which may include installation of additional environmental controls, modification of operating schedules or the closure of one or more of our coal fired generating facilities. Any compliance costs we incur could have a material impact on our financial results. The HAA requires that Maryland become a full participant in the Northeast Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) by June 2007. Under RGGI, it is expected that affected plants would participate in an auction to obtain sufficient CO2 allowances to support the level of emissions that result from plant operations. In addition, California has adopted regulations requiring our generating facilities in California to submit greenhouse gas emissions data to the state, which the state intends to use to develop a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the HAA and California CO2 emissions requirements and RGGI participation on our financial results; however, our compliance costs could be material. Water Quality The Clean Water Act established the basic framework for federal and state regulation of water pollution control and requires facilities that discharge waste or storm water into the waters of the United States to obtain permits. Water Intake Regulations In July 2004, the EPA published final rules under the Clean Water Act that require cooling water intake structures to reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts. We currently have six facilities affected by the regulation. The rule allows for a number of compliance options that will be assessed through 2007, following which we will determine whether any action is required and what our most viable options are if any action is required. Until we determine our most viable option under the final rules, we cannot estimate our compliance costs. However, the costs associated with the final rules could be material. In January 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that the EPAs rule did not properly implement the Clean Water Act requirements in a number of areas and remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any EPA regulatory action taken in response to the courts decision. However, any such action could impact our compliance approach, which could have a material effect on our financial results. Hazardous and Solid Waste We discuss proceedings relating to compliance with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our coal fired generating facilities produce approximately two and a half million tons of combustion by products (ash) each year. The EPA has announced its intention to develop national standards, currently scheduled to be proposed in May 2007, to regulate this material as a non hazardous waste, and is developing regulations governing the placement of ash in landfills, surface impoundments, and sand/gravel surface mines. The EPA is also developing regulations for ash placement in coal mines, which are expected to be proposed in October 2007. Federal regulation has the potential to result in additional requirements. Depending on the scope of any final requirements, our compliance costs could be material. As a result of these regulatory proposals, the remaining ash placement capacity at our current mine reclamation site and our current ash generation projections, we are exploring our options for the placement of ash, including construction of an ash placement facility. Over the next five years, we estimate that our capital expenditures for this project will be approximately $75 million. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any regulatory change, its implementation timetable, and the scope of the final requirements. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope and timing of this project with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. Employees Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 9,645 employees at December 31, 2006. At the Nine Mile Point facility, approximately 515 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 97. The labor contract with this union expires in June 2011. We believe that our relationship with this union is satisfactory, but there can be no assurances that this will continue to be the case. 17 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as counterparties). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured partys nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGEs recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGEs distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGEs, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGEs, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGEs, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Item 2. Properties Constellation Energys corporate offices occupy approximately 106,000 square feet of leased office space in Baltimore, Maryland. The corporate offices for most of our merchant energy business occupy approximately 268,000 square feet of leased office space in another building in Baltimore, Maryland. We describe our electric generation properties on the next page. We also have leases for other offices and services located in the Baltimore metropolitan region, and for various real property and facilities relating to our generation projects. BGE owns its principal headquarters building located in downtown Baltimore. In addition, BGE owns propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as discussed in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. BGE also has rights of way to maintain 26 inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expired in 2004. BGE is in the process of renewing the rights of way with Baltimore City for an additional 25 years. The expiration of the rights of way does not affect BGEs ability to use the rights of way during the renewal process. BGE has electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines located: in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises, and on rights of way secured for the most part by grants from owners of the property. All of BGEs property is subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage securing its mortgage bonds. The generation facilities transferred to our subsidiaries by BGE on July 1, 2000, along with the stock we own in certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage. We believe we have satisfactory title to our power project facilities in accordance with standards generally accepted in the energy industry, subject to exceptions, which in our opinion, would not have a material adverse effect on the use or value of the facilities. Our merchant energy business owns several natural gas producing properties. We also lease office space throughout North America, and in the United Kingdom and Australia to support our merchant energy business. 22 The following table describes our generating facilities: Plant Location Capacity (MW) % Owned Capacity Owned (MW) Primary Fuel (at December 31, 2006) Mid Atlantic Region Calvert Cliffs Calvert Co., MD 1,735 100.0 1,735 Nuclear Brandon Shores Anne Arundel Co., MD 1,286 100.0 1,286 Coal H. A. Wagner Anne Arundel Co., MD 963 100.0 963 Coal/Oil/Gas C. P. Crane Baltimore Co., MD 399 100.0 399 Oil/Coal Keystone Armstrong and Indiana Cos., PA 1,706 21.0 358 (A) Coal Conemaugh Indiana Co., PA 1,714 10.6 181 (A) Coal Perryman Harford Co., MD 355 100.0 355 Oil/Gas Riverside Baltimore Co., MD 200 100.0 200 Oil/Gas Handsome Lake Rockland Twp, PA 250 100.0 250 Gas Notch Cliff Baltimore Co., MD 120 100.0 120 Gas Westport Baltimore City, MD 116 100.0 116 Gas Philadelphia Road Baltimore City, MD 64 100.0 64 Oil Safe Harbor Safe Harbor, PA 417 66.7 278 Hydro Total Mid Atlantic Region 9,325 6,305 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements Nine Mile Point Unit 1 Scriba, NY 620 100.0 620 Nuclear Nine Mile Point Unit 2 Scriba, NY 1,138 82.0 933 Nuclear R.E. Ginna Ontario, NY 581 100.0 581 Nuclear Total Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2,339 2,134 Other Panther Creek Nesquehoning, PA 80 50.0 40 Waste Coal Colver Colver Township, PA 104 25.0 26 Waste Coal Sunnyside Sunnyside, UT 52 50.0 26 Waste Coal ACE Trona, CA 102 31.1 32 Coal Jasmin Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal POSO Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal Mammoth Lakes G 1 Mammoth Lakes, CA 6 50.0 3 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 2 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 3 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Soda Lake I Fallon, NV 4 50.0 2 Geothermal Soda Lake II Fallon, NV 10 50.0 5 Geothermal Rocklin Placer Co., CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Fresno Fresno, CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Chinese Station Jamestown, CA 22 45.0 10 Biomass Malacha Muck Valley, CA 32 50.0 16 Hydro SEGS IV Kramer Junction, CA 33 12.2 4 Solar SEGS V Kramer Junction, CA 24 4.2 1 Solar SEGS VI Kramer Junction, CA 34 8.8 3 Solar Total Other 643 238 Total Generating Facilities 12,307 8,677 (A) Reflects our proportionate interest in and entitlement to capacity from Keystone and Conemaugh, which include 2 MW of diesel capacity for Keystone and 1 MW of diesel capacity for Conemaugh. 23 The following table describes our processing facilities: Plant Location % Owned Primary Fuel A/C Fuels Hazelton, PA 50.0 Waste Coal Processing Gary PCI Gary, IN 24.5 Coal Processing Low Country Cross, SC 99.0 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel VA I Norton, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV I Chelyan, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV II Mount Storm, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV III Chester, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing Item 3. Legal Proceedings We discuss our legal proceedings in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders On December 8, 2006, we held our annual meeting of shareholders. At that meeting, the following matters were voted upon: 1. Class I Directors nominated by Constellation Energy were elected to serve for a term to expire in 2009 and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as follows: COMMON SHARES CAST: For Withheld Douglas L. Becker 119,241,432 14,048,574 Edward A. Crooke 122,520,333 10,769,673 Mayo A. Shattuck III 128,640,389 4,649,617 Michael D. Sullivan 119,327,025 13,962,981 All other directors whose term of office continued after the date of this meeting are: James T. Brady Freeman A. Hrabowski, III James R. Curtiss Nancy Lampton Yves C. de Balmann Robert J. Lawless Lynn M. Martin 2. The ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2006 was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 130,005,402, the number of votes cast against was 1,846,861, and the number of abstentions was 1,437,743. 3. The shareholder proposal requesting Constellation Energy to declassify the Board of Directors was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 76,259,034, the number of votes cast against was 7,688,559, the number of abstentions was 26,748,840, and the number of broker non votes was 22,593,573. 24 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Present Office Other Offices or Positions Held During Past Five Years Mayo A. Shattuck III 52 Chairman of the Board of Constellation Energy (since July 2002), President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy (since November 2001); and Chairman of the Board of BGE (since July 2002) None. E. Follin Smith 47 Executive Vice President (since January 2004), Chief Financial Officer (since June 2001) and Chief Administrative Officer (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (since January 2002) Senior Vice President Constellation Energy. Thomas V. Brooks 44 Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); and Vice Chairman (since August 2005) and Executive Vice President (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy President and Chief Executive Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Michael J. Wallace 59 President (since January 2002) and Chief Executive Officer (since May 2005) of Constellation Generation Group, LLC; and Executive Vice President of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) None. Thomas F. Brady 57 Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy. Irving B. Yoskowitz 61 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Constellation Energy (since June 2005) Senior Counsel Crowell & Moring (law firm); and Senior Partner Global Technology Partners, LLC (investment banking and consulting firm). Felix J. Dawson 39 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since May 2006) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. 25 George E. Persky 37 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Kenneth W. DeFontes, Jr. 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2004) Vice President, Electric Transmission and Distribution BGE. Paul J. Allen 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Corporate Affairs Constellation Energy. John R. Collins 49 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Risk Officer of Constellation Energy (since December 2001); and member of Board of Managers of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since September 2006) Vice President Constellation Energy. Beth S. Perlman 46 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Information Officer of Constellation Energy (since April 2002) Vice President Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Technology Enron Corporation. Marc L. Ugol 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Human Resources Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Tellabs, Inc. Officers are elected by, and hold office at the will of, the Board of Directors and do not serve a term of office as such. There is no arrangement or understanding between any director or officer and any other person pursuant to which the director or officer was selected. 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Stock Trading Constellation Energys common stock is traded under the ticker symbol CEG. It is listed on the New York and Chicago stock exchanges. As of January 31, 2007, there were 41,680 common shareholders of record. Dividend Policy Constellation Energy pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on Constellation Energy paying common stock dividends. Dividends have been paid continuously since 1910 on the common stock of Constellation Energy, BGE, and their predecessors. Future dividends depend upon future earnings, our financial condition, and other factors. In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.3775 to $0.435 per share payable April 2, 2007 to holders of record on March 12, 2007. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Quarterly dividends were declared on our common stock during 2006 and 2005 in the amounts set forth below. BGE pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on BGE paying common stock dividends unless: BGE elects to defer interest payments on the 6.20% Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures due 2043, and any deferred interest remains unpaid; or any dividends (and any redemption payments) due on BGEs preference stock have not been paid. Common Stock Dividends and Price Ranges 2006 2005 Dividend Price Dividend Price Declared High Low Declared High Low First Quarter $ 0.3775 $ 60.55 $ 54.01 $ 0.335 $ 53.55 $ 43.01 Second Quarter 0.3775 55.68 50.55 0.335 57.91 50.36 Third Quarter 0.3775 60.79 53.70 0.335 62.09 56.50 Fourth Quarter 0.3775 70.20 59.00 0.335 62.60 50.40 Total $ 1.51 $ 1.340 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The following table presents shares surrendered by employees to exercise stock options and to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock and stock option exercises. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid for Shares Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans and Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 565 $ 60.43 November 1 November 30, 2006 December 1 December 31, 2006 2,483 68.61 Total 3,048 $ 67.09 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Constellation Energy Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002(1) (In millions, except per share amounts) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 19,284.9 $ 16,968.3 $ 12,127.2 $ 9,342.8 $ 4,771.6 Total Expenses 18,025.2 16,023.8 11,209.1 8,395.5 3,711.5 Gain on Sale of Gas Fired Plants 73.8 Income From Operations 1,333.5 944.5 918.1 947.3 1,060.1 Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC 28.7 Other Income 66.1 65.5 25.5 20.6 33.8 Fixed Charges 328.7 310.2 326.8 336.3 277.3 Income Before Income Taxes 1,099.6 699.8 616.8 631.6 816.6 Income Taxes 351.0 163.9 118.4 222.2 301.2 Income from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 409.4 515.4 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes 187.8 94.4 41.3 66.3 10.2 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net of Income Taxes (7.2 ) (198.4 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 $ 277.3 $ 525.6 Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles Assuming Dilution $ 4.12 $ 2.98 $ 2.88 $ 2.45 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations 1.04 0.53 0.24 0.40 0.06 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles (0.04 ) (1.19 ) Earnings Per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 5.16 $ 3.47 $ 3.12 $ 1.66 $ 3.20 Dividends Declared Per Common Share $ 1.51 $ 1.34 $ 1.14 $ 1.04 $ 0.96 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 21,801.6 $ 21,473.9 $ 17,347.1 $ 15,593.0 $ 14,943.3 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 878.8 $ 491.3 $ 480.4 $ 343.2 $ 426.2 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 4,222.3 $ 4,369.3 $ 4,813.2 $ 5,039.2 $ 4,613.9 Minority Interests 94.5 22.4 90.9 113.4 105.3 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 4,609.3 4,915.5 4,726.9 4,140.5 3,862.3 Total Capitalization $ 9,116.1 $ 9,497.2 $ 9,821.0 $ 9,483.1 $ 8,771.5 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 4.05 3.04 2.71 2.69 3.31 Book Value Per Share of Common Stock $ 25.54 $ 27.57 $ 26.81 $ 24.68 $ 23.44 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. (1) Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 include $255.5 million of gains recognized on the sale of our outstanding shares of Orion Power Holdings, Inc. We discuss items that affect comparability between years, including acquisitions and dispositions, accounting changes and other items, in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Market Risk section. Electric Load Management BGE has implemented various programs for use when system operating conditions or market economics indicate that a reduction in load would be beneficial. We refer to these programs as active load management programs. These programs include: two options for commercial and industrial customers to voluntarily reduce their electric loads, air conditioning control for residential and commercial customers, and residential water heater control. These programs generally take effect on summer days when demand and or wholesale prices are relatively high and had the capability during the 2006 summer to reduce load up to approximately 233 MW. Transmission and Distribution Facilities BGE maintains approximately 250 substations and 1,300 circuit miles of transmission lines throughout central Maryland. BGE also maintains approximately 23,900 circuit miles of distribution lines. The transmission facilities are connected to those of neighboring utility systems as part of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff and various agreements, BGE and other market participants can use regional transmission facilities for energy, capacity, and ancillary services transactions including emergency assistance. We discuss various FERC initiatives relating to wholesale electric markets in more detail in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Federal Regulation section. 11 Electric Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential $ 1,092.1 $ 1,066.6 $ 1,015.8 $ 959.0 $ 946.6 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 733.4 722.1 708.9 694.2 776.0 Delivery Service Only 149.4 107.5 78.6 66.1 33.5 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 46.8 52.8 92.3 137.0 158.7 Delivery Service Only 26.2 28.0 21.3 18.2 10.9 System Sales and Deliveries 2,047.9 1,977.0 1,916.9 1,874.5 1,925.7 Other (A) 68.0 59.5 50.8 47.1 40.3 Total $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 $ 1,921.6 $ 1,966.0 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) MWH Residential 12,886 13,762 13,313 12,754 12,652 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 6,325 7,847 9,286 9,937 11,840 Delivery Service Only 9,392 7,967 5,767 4,982 2,762 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 467 614 1,429 2,556 3,478 Delivery Service Only 2,988 3,122 2,562 1,780 997 Total 32,058 33,312 32,357 32,009 31,729 Customers (In thousands) Residential 1,093.3 1,084.1 1,072.1 1,061.7 1,052.3 Commercial 115.5 114.7 113.6 112.1 110.8 Industrial 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.9 4.9 Total 1,214.0 1,203.8 1,190.5 1,178.7 1,168.0 (A) Primarily includes network integration transmission service revenues, late payment charges, miscellaneous service fees, and tower leasing revenues. Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 12 Gas Business The wholesale price of natural gas as a commodity is not subject to regulation. All BGE gas customers have the option to purchase gas from alternative suppliers, including subsidiaries of Constellation Energy. BGE continues to deliver gas to all customers within its service territory. This delivery service is regulated by the Maryland PSC. BGE also provides customers with meter reading, billing, emergency response, regular maintenance, and balancing services. Approximately 50% of the gas delivered on BGEs distribution system is for customers that purchase gas from alternative suppliers. These customers are charged fees to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver the customers gas through our distribution system. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. For customers that buy their gas from BGE, there is a market based rates incentive mechanism. Under this market based rates incentive mechanism, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. BGE must secure fixed price contracts for at least 10%, but not more than 20%, of forecasted system supply requirements for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are not subject to sharing under the market based rates incentive mechanism. BGE purchases the natural gas it resells to customers directly from many producers and marketers. BGE has transportation and storage agreements that expire from 2007 to 2028. BGEs current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve BGEs firm loads are 313,053 dekatherms (DTH) per day. BGEs current maximum storage entitlements are 235,080 DTH per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has: a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,092,977 DTH and a daily capacity of 311,500 DTH, and a propane air facility with a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 564,200 DTH and a daily capacity of 85,000 DTH. BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short term contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of short term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand. BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off system sales. Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance our supply of, and cost of, natural gas. 13 Gas Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only $ 490.2 $ 558.5 $ 478.0 $ 444.5 $ 342.1 Delivery Service Only 20.6 23.2 14.2 13.6 16.5 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 148.9 174.4 135.4 128.6 89.4 Delivery Service Only 35.9 31.9 28.0 24.6 29.2 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 7.5 10.5 9.4 11.5 9.3 Delivery Service Only 19.3 12.4 7.8 11.4 13.9 System Sales and Deliveries 722.4 810.9 672.8 634.2 500.4 Off System Sales 168.6 154.7 77.2 84.8 74.8 Other 8.5 7.2 7.0 7.0 6.1 Total $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 $ 726.0 $ 581.3 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) DTH Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only 33,019 39,107 39,080 40,894 35,364 Delivery Service Only 3,948 5,423 6,053 6,640 6,404 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 11,683 14,133 13,248 13,895 11,583 Delivery Service Only 25,695 28,993 34,120 29,138 28,429 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 604 921 865 1,143 1,207 Delivery Service Only 20,325 19,357 14,310 18,399 23,689 System Sales and Deliveries 95,274 107,934 107,676 110,109 106,676 Off System Sales 19,738 17,209 9,914 12,859 18,551 Total 115,012 125,143 117,590 122,968 125,227 Customers (In thousands) Residential 597.1 590.9 582.0 575.2 567.3 Commercial 42.3 42.0 41.6 41.1 40.7 Industrial 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.3 Total 640.6 634.1 624.8 617.5 609.3 Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 14 Franchises BGE has nonexclusive electric and gas franchises to use streets and other highways that are adequate and sufficient to permit them to engage in their present business. Conditions of the franchises are satisfactory. Other Nonregulated Businesses Energy Projects and Services We offer energy projects and services designed primarily to provide energy solutions to large commercial and industrial and governmental customers. These energy products and services include: designing, constructing, and operating heating, cooling, and cogeneration facilities, energy savings projects and performance contracting, energy consulting and procurement services , services to enhance the reliability of individual electric supply systems, and customized financing alternatives. Home Products and Gas Retail Marketing We offer services to customers in Maryland including: home improvements, the service of heating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, and indoor air quality systems, and the sale of natural gas to residential customers. Consolidated Capital Requirements Our total capital requirements for 2006 were $1,149 million. Of this amount, $789 million was used in our nonregulated businesses and $360 million was used in our regulated business. We estimate our total capital requirements will be $1,915 million in 2007. We continuously review and change our capital expenditure programs, so actual expenditures may vary from the estimate above. We discuss our capital requirements further in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Capital Resources section. Environmental Matters The development (involving site selection, environmental assessments, and permitting), construction, acquisition, and operation of electric generating and distribution facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and land use laws and regulations. From the beginning phases of development to the ongoing operation of existing or new electric generating and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse laws and regulations that address emissions and impacts to air and water, protection of natural and cultural resources, and chemical and waste handling and disposal. We continuously monitor federal, state, and local environmental initiatives to determine potential impacts on our financial results. As new laws or regulations are promulgated, we assess their applicability and implement the necessary modifications to our facilities or their operation to maintain ongoing compliance. Our capital expenditures were approximately $100 million during the five year period 2002 2006 to comply with existing environmental standards and regulations. Our estimated environmental capital requirements for the next three years are approximately $335 million in 2007, $495 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2009. Air Quality Federal The Clean Air Act created the basic framework for the federal and state regulation of air pollution. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) The NAAQS are federal air quality standards authorized under the Clean Air Act that establish maximum ambient air concentrations for the following specific pollutants: ozone (smog), carbon monoxide, lead, particulates, sulfur dioxides (SO2), and nitrogen dioxides (NO2). In order for states to achieve compliance with the NAAQS, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005 to further reduce ozone and fine particulate pollution by addressing the interstate transport of SO2 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from fossil fuel fired generating facilities located primarily in the Eastern United States. In May 2005, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for ozone and rescinded a requirement to impose fees on emissions sources in certain areas, including certain of our generating facilities, for failure to achieve the previous ozone standard. States will be required to submit plans to the EPA to meet the new standard by 2007, at which time the standard will take effect. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for ozone will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. In December 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the requirement to impose fees on emissions sources based on the previous ozone standard remained applicable retroactive to November 2005 and remanded the issue to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict what action the EPA will take in response to the Courts decision and whether the fees will be retroactively assessed. The exact method of computing these fees has not been established and will depend in part on state implementation regulations that have not been finalized. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the ultimate financial impact of the fees in light of the uncertainty surrounding the methodology that 15 will be used in calculating the fees. However, any fees that are ultimately assessed could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. In September 2006, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for particulate matter. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for particulate matter will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. Hazardous Air Emissions In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) to reduce the emissions of mercury from coal fired facilities through a market based cap and trade program. CAMR will affect all coal or waste coal fired boilers at our generating facilities. New Source Review In connection with its enforcement of the Clean Air Acts new source review requirements, in 2000, the EPA requested information relating to modifications made to our Brandon Shores, Crane, and Wagner plants located in Maryland. The EPA also sent similar, but narrower, information requests to two of our newer Pennsylvania waste coal burning plants in which we have an ownership interest. We responded to the EPA in 2001, and as of the date of this report the EPA has taken no further action. Based on the level of emissions control that the EPA and states are seeking in these new source review enforcement actions, we believe that material additional costs and penalties could be incurred, and planned capital expenditures could be accelerated, if the EPA was successful in any future actions regarding our facilities. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia annulled the equipment replacement rule adopted by the EPA in August 2003, which established a threshold for determining when major new source review requirements are triggered. We believe the Court decision, which was anticipated, should have minimal effect on us as it maintains the existing rules for equipment replacement. However, we anticipate that the EPA will continue to examine the existing equipment replacement rules and may again propose new rules. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case, not involving us, relating to the new source review requirements. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of any future EPA regulatory action or the outcome of the U.S. Supreme Court proceeding, or their possible effect on our financial results. State Maryland has adopted the Healthy Air Act (HAA) and the Clean Power Rule (CPR), which establish annual SO2, NOx, and mercury emission caps for specific coal fired units in Maryland, including units located at three of our facilities. The requirements of the HAA and the CPR for SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions are more stringent and apply sooner than those under CAIR and CAMR. In addition, Pennsylvania has adopted regulations requiring coal fired generating facilities located in Pennsylvania to reduce mercury emissions sooner and to a greater extent than required under CAMR. Several other states in the northeastern U.S. continue to consider more stringent and earlier SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions reductions than those required under CAIR or CAMR. Capital Expenditure Estimates We expect to incur additional environmental capital spending as a result of complying with the air quality laws and regulations discussed above. Based on the information currently available to us about CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR, we will install additional air emission control equipment at our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at our co owned coal fired facilities in Pennsylvania to meet air quality standards. We include in our estimated environmental capital requirements capital spending for these projects, which we expect will be approximately $320 million in 2007, $470 million in 2008, $290 million in 2009 and $40 million from 2010 2011. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any additional federal and or state regulations or legislation, the implementation timetables for such regulation or legislation, and the specific amount of emissions reductions that will be required at our facilities. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope or timing of these projects with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. In addition, CAMR is subject to legal challenges filed by the states and industry and environmental groups. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these challenges, or their possible effect on our financial results. We believe that the additional air emission control equipment we plan to install will meet the emission reduction requirements under CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR. If additional emission reductions still are required, we will assess our various compliance alternatives and their related costs, and although we cannot yet estimate the additional costs we may incur, such costs could be material. 16 Global Climate Change Although uncertainty remains as to the nature and timing of greenhouse gas emissions regulation, there is an increasing likelihood that such regulation will occur at the federal and or state level. In the event that greenhouse gas emissions reduction legislation or regulations are enacted, we will assess our various compliance alternatives, which may include installation of additional environmental controls, modification of operating schedules or the closure of one or more of our coal fired generating facilities. Any compliance costs we incur could have a material impact on our financial results. The HAA requires that Maryland become a full participant in the Northeast Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) by June 2007. Under RGGI, it is expected that affected plants would participate in an auction to obtain sufficient CO2 allowances to support the level of emissions that result from plant operations. In addition, California has adopted regulations requiring our generating facilities in California to submit greenhouse gas emissions data to the state, which the state intends to use to develop a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the HAA and California CO2 emissions requirements and RGGI participation on our financial results; however, our compliance costs could be material. Water Quality The Clean Water Act established the basic framework for federal and state regulation of water pollution control and requires facilities that discharge waste or storm water into the waters of the United States to obtain permits. Water Intake Regulations In July 2004, the EPA published final rules under the Clean Water Act that require cooling water intake structures to reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts. We currently have six facilities affected by the regulation. The rule allows for a number of compliance options that will be assessed through 2007, following which we will determine whether any action is required and what our most viable options are if any action is required. Until we determine our most viable option under the final rules, we cannot estimate our compliance costs. However, the costs associated with the final rules could be material. In January 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that the EPAs rule did not properly implement the Clean Water Act requirements in a number of areas and remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any EPA regulatory action taken in response to the courts decision. However, any such action could impact our compliance approach, which could have a material effect on our financial results. Hazardous and Solid Waste We discuss proceedings relating to compliance with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our coal fired generating facilities produce approximately two and a half million tons of combustion by products (ash) each year. The EPA has announced its intention to develop national standards, currently scheduled to be proposed in May 2007, to regulate this material as a non hazardous waste, and is developing regulations governing the placement of ash in landfills, surface impoundments, and sand/gravel surface mines. The EPA is also developing regulations for ash placement in coal mines, which are expected to be proposed in October 2007. Federal regulation has the potential to result in additional requirements. Depending on the scope of any final requirements, our compliance costs could be material. As a result of these regulatory proposals, the remaining ash placement capacity at our current mine reclamation site and our current ash generation projections, we are exploring our options for the placement of ash, including construction of an ash placement facility. Over the next five years, we estimate that our capital expenditures for this project will be approximately $75 million. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any regulatory change, its implementation timetable, and the scope of the final requirements. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope and timing of this project with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. Employees Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 9,645 employees at December 31, 2006. At the Nine Mile Point facility, approximately 515 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 97. The labor contract with this union expires in June 2011. We believe that our relationship with this union is satisfactory, but there can be no assurances that this will continue to be the case. 17 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as counterparties). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured partys nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGEs recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGEs distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGEs, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGEs, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGEs, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Item 2. Properties Constellation Energys corporate offices occupy approximately 106,000 square feet of leased office space in Baltimore, Maryland. The corporate offices for most of our merchant energy business occupy approximately 268,000 square feet of leased office space in another building in Baltimore, Maryland. We describe our electric generation properties on the next page. We also have leases for other offices and services located in the Baltimore metropolitan region, and for various real property and facilities relating to our generation projects. BGE owns its principal headquarters building located in downtown Baltimore. In addition, BGE owns propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as discussed in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. BGE also has rights of way to maintain 26 inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expired in 2004. BGE is in the process of renewing the rights of way with Baltimore City for an additional 25 years. The expiration of the rights of way does not affect BGEs ability to use the rights of way during the renewal process. BGE has electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines located: in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises, and on rights of way secured for the most part by grants from owners of the property. All of BGEs property is subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage securing its mortgage bonds. The generation facilities transferred to our subsidiaries by BGE on July 1, 2000, along with the stock we own in certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage. We believe we have satisfactory title to our power project facilities in accordance with standards generally accepted in the energy industry, subject to exceptions, which in our opinion, would not have a material adverse effect on the use or value of the facilities. Our merchant energy business owns several natural gas producing properties. We also lease office space throughout North America, and in the United Kingdom and Australia to support our merchant energy business. 22 The following table describes our generating facilities: Plant Location Capacity (MW) % Owned Capacity Owned (MW) Primary Fuel (at December 31, 2006) Mid Atlantic Region Calvert Cliffs Calvert Co., MD 1,735 100.0 1,735 Nuclear Brandon Shores Anne Arundel Co., MD 1,286 100.0 1,286 Coal H. A. Wagner Anne Arundel Co., MD 963 100.0 963 Coal/Oil/Gas C. P. Crane Baltimore Co., MD 399 100.0 399 Oil/Coal Keystone Armstrong and Indiana Cos., PA 1,706 21.0 358 (A) Coal Conemaugh Indiana Co., PA 1,714 10.6 181 (A) Coal Perryman Harford Co., MD 355 100.0 355 Oil/Gas Riverside Baltimore Co., MD 200 100.0 200 Oil/Gas Handsome Lake Rockland Twp, PA 250 100.0 250 Gas Notch Cliff Baltimore Co., MD 120 100.0 120 Gas Westport Baltimore City, MD 116 100.0 116 Gas Philadelphia Road Baltimore City, MD 64 100.0 64 Oil Safe Harbor Safe Harbor, PA 417 66.7 278 Hydro Total Mid Atlantic Region 9,325 6,305 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements Nine Mile Point Unit 1 Scriba, NY 620 100.0 620 Nuclear Nine Mile Point Unit 2 Scriba, NY 1,138 82.0 933 Nuclear R.E. Ginna Ontario, NY 581 100.0 581 Nuclear Total Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2,339 2,134 Other Panther Creek Nesquehoning, PA 80 50.0 40 Waste Coal Colver Colver Township, PA 104 25.0 26 Waste Coal Sunnyside Sunnyside, UT 52 50.0 26 Waste Coal ACE Trona, CA 102 31.1 32 Coal Jasmin Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal POSO Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal Mammoth Lakes G 1 Mammoth Lakes, CA 6 50.0 3 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 2 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 3 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Soda Lake I Fallon, NV 4 50.0 2 Geothermal Soda Lake II Fallon, NV 10 50.0 5 Geothermal Rocklin Placer Co., CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Fresno Fresno, CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Chinese Station Jamestown, CA 22 45.0 10 Biomass Malacha Muck Valley, CA 32 50.0 16 Hydro SEGS IV Kramer Junction, CA 33 12.2 4 Solar SEGS V Kramer Junction, CA 24 4.2 1 Solar SEGS VI Kramer Junction, CA 34 8.8 3 Solar Total Other 643 238 Total Generating Facilities 12,307 8,677 (A) Reflects our proportionate interest in and entitlement to capacity from Keystone and Conemaugh, which include 2 MW of diesel capacity for Keystone and 1 MW of diesel capacity for Conemaugh. 23 The following table describes our processing facilities: Plant Location % Owned Primary Fuel A/C Fuels Hazelton, PA 50.0 Waste Coal Processing Gary PCI Gary, IN 24.5 Coal Processing Low Country Cross, SC 99.0 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel VA I Norton, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV I Chelyan, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV II Mount Storm, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV III Chester, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing Item 3. Legal Proceedings We discuss our legal proceedings in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders On December 8, 2006, we held our annual meeting of shareholders. At that meeting, the following matters were voted upon: 1. Class I Directors nominated by Constellation Energy were elected to serve for a term to expire in 2009 and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as follows: COMMON SHARES CAST: For Withheld Douglas L. Becker 119,241,432 14,048,574 Edward A. Crooke 122,520,333 10,769,673 Mayo A. Shattuck III 128,640,389 4,649,617 Michael D. Sullivan 119,327,025 13,962,981 All other directors whose term of office continued after the date of this meeting are: James T. Brady Freeman A. Hrabowski, III James R. Curtiss Nancy Lampton Yves C. de Balmann Robert J. Lawless Lynn M. Martin 2. The ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2006 was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 130,005,402, the number of votes cast against was 1,846,861, and the number of abstentions was 1,437,743. 3. The shareholder proposal requesting Constellation Energy to declassify the Board of Directors was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 76,259,034, the number of votes cast against was 7,688,559, the number of abstentions was 26,748,840, and the number of broker non votes was 22,593,573. 24 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Present Office Other Offices or Positions Held During Past Five Years Mayo A. Shattuck III 52 Chairman of the Board of Constellation Energy (since July 2002), President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy (since November 2001); and Chairman of the Board of BGE (since July 2002) None. E. Follin Smith 47 Executive Vice President (since January 2004), Chief Financial Officer (since June 2001) and Chief Administrative Officer (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (since January 2002) Senior Vice President Constellation Energy. Thomas V. Brooks 44 Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); and Vice Chairman (since August 2005) and Executive Vice President (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy President and Chief Executive Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Michael J. Wallace 59 President (since January 2002) and Chief Executive Officer (since May 2005) of Constellation Generation Group, LLC; and Executive Vice President of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) None. Thomas F. Brady 57 Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy. Irving B. Yoskowitz 61 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Constellation Energy (since June 2005) Senior Counsel Crowell & Moring (law firm); and Senior Partner Global Technology Partners, LLC (investment banking and consulting firm). Felix J. Dawson 39 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since May 2006) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. 25 George E. Persky 37 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Kenneth W. DeFontes, Jr. 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2004) Vice President, Electric Transmission and Distribution BGE. Paul J. Allen 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Corporate Affairs Constellation Energy. John R. Collins 49 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Risk Officer of Constellation Energy (since December 2001); and member of Board of Managers of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since September 2006) Vice President Constellation Energy. Beth S. Perlman 46 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Information Officer of Constellation Energy (since April 2002) Vice President Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Technology Enron Corporation. Marc L. Ugol 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Human Resources Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Tellabs, Inc. Officers are elected by, and hold office at the will of, the Board of Directors and do not serve a term of office as such. There is no arrangement or understanding between any director or officer and any other person pursuant to which the director or officer was selected. 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Stock Trading Constellation Energys common stock is traded under the ticker symbol CEG. It is listed on the New York and Chicago stock exchanges. As of January 31, 2007, there were 41,680 common shareholders of record. Dividend Policy Constellation Energy pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on Constellation Energy paying common stock dividends. Dividends have been paid continuously since 1910 on the common stock of Constellation Energy, BGE, and their predecessors. Future dividends depend upon future earnings, our financial condition, and other factors. In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.3775 to $0.435 per share payable April 2, 2007 to holders of record on March 12, 2007. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Quarterly dividends were declared on our common stock during 2006 and 2005 in the amounts set forth below. BGE pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on BGE paying common stock dividends unless: BGE elects to defer interest payments on the 6.20% Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures due 2043, and any deferred interest remains unpaid; or any dividends (and any redemption payments) due on BGEs preference stock have not been paid. Common Stock Dividends and Price Ranges 2006 2005 Dividend Price Dividend Price Declared High Low Declared High Low First Quarter $ 0.3775 $ 60.55 $ 54.01 $ 0.335 $ 53.55 $ 43.01 Second Quarter 0.3775 55.68 50.55 0.335 57.91 50.36 Third Quarter 0.3775 60.79 53.70 0.335 62.09 56.50 Fourth Quarter 0.3775 70.20 59.00 0.335 62.60 50.40 Total $ 1.51 $ 1.340 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The following table presents shares surrendered by employees to exercise stock options and to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock and stock option exercises. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid for Shares Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans and Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 565 $ 60.43 November 1 November 30, 2006 December 1 December 31, 2006 2,483 68.61 Total 3,048 $ 67.09 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Constellation Energy Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002(1) (In millions, except per share amounts) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 19,284.9 $ 16,968.3 $ 12,127.2 $ 9,342.8 $ 4,771.6 Total Expenses 18,025.2 16,023.8 11,209.1 8,395.5 3,711.5 Gain on Sale of Gas Fired Plants 73.8 Income From Operations 1,333.5 944.5 918.1 947.3 1,060.1 Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC 28.7 Other Income 66.1 65.5 25.5 20.6 33.8 Fixed Charges 328.7 310.2 326.8 336.3 277.3 Income Before Income Taxes 1,099.6 699.8 616.8 631.6 816.6 Income Taxes 351.0 163.9 118.4 222.2 301.2 Income from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 409.4 515.4 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes 187.8 94.4 41.3 66.3 10.2 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net of Income Taxes (7.2 ) (198.4 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 $ 277.3 $ 525.6 Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles Assuming Dilution $ 4.12 $ 2.98 $ 2.88 $ 2.45 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations 1.04 0.53 0.24 0.40 0.06 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles (0.04 ) (1.19 ) Earnings Per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 5.16 $ 3.47 $ 3.12 $ 1.66 $ 3.20 Dividends Declared Per Common Share $ 1.51 $ 1.34 $ 1.14 $ 1.04 $ 0.96 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 21,801.6 $ 21,473.9 $ 17,347.1 $ 15,593.0 $ 14,943.3 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 878.8 $ 491.3 $ 480.4 $ 343.2 $ 426.2 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 4,222.3 $ 4,369.3 $ 4,813.2 $ 5,039.2 $ 4,613.9 Minority Interests 94.5 22.4 90.9 113.4 105.3 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 4,609.3 4,915.5 4,726.9 4,140.5 3,862.3 Total Capitalization $ 9,116.1 $ 9,497.2 $ 9,821.0 $ 9,483.1 $ 8,771.5 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 4.05 3.04 2.71 2.69 3.31 Book Value Per Share of Common Stock $ 25.54 $ 27.57 $ 26.81 $ 24.68 $ 23.44 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. (1) Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 include $255.5 million of gains recognized on the sale of our outstanding shares of Orion Power Holdings, Inc. We discuss items that affect comparability between years, including acquisitions and dispositions, accounting changes and other items, in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Federal Regulation section. 11 Electric Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential $ 1,092.1 $ 1,066.6 $ 1,015.8 $ 959.0 $ 946.6 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 733.4 722.1 708.9 694.2 776.0 Delivery Service Only 149.4 107.5 78.6 66.1 33.5 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 46.8 52.8 92.3 137.0 158.7 Delivery Service Only 26.2 28.0 21.3 18.2 10.9 System Sales and Deliveries 2,047.9 1,977.0 1,916.9 1,874.5 1,925.7 Other (A) 68.0 59.5 50.8 47.1 40.3 Total $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 $ 1,921.6 $ 1,966.0 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) MWH Residential 12,886 13,762 13,313 12,754 12,652 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 6,325 7,847 9,286 9,937 11,840 Delivery Service Only 9,392 7,967 5,767 4,982 2,762 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 467 614 1,429 2,556 3,478 Delivery Service Only 2,988 3,122 2,562 1,780 997 Total 32,058 33,312 32,357 32,009 31,729 Customers (In thousands) Residential 1,093.3 1,084.1 1,072.1 1,061.7 1,052.3 Commercial 115.5 114.7 113.6 112.1 110.8 Industrial 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.9 4.9 Total 1,214.0 1,203.8 1,190.5 1,178.7 1,168.0 (A) Primarily includes network integration transmission service revenues, late payment charges, miscellaneous service fees, and tower leasing revenues. Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 12 Gas Business The wholesale price of natural gas as a commodity is not subject to regulation. All BGE gas customers have the option to purchase gas from alternative suppliers, including subsidiaries of Constellation Energy. BGE continues to deliver gas to all customers within its service territory. This delivery service is regulated by the Maryland PSC. BGE also provides customers with meter reading, billing, emergency response, regular maintenance, and balancing services. Approximately 50% of the gas delivered on BGEs distribution system is for customers that purchase gas from alternative suppliers. These customers are charged fees to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver the customers gas through our distribution system. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. For customers that buy their gas from BGE, there is a market based rates incentive mechanism. Under this market based rates incentive mechanism, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. BGE must secure fixed price contracts for at least 10%, but not more than 20%, of forecasted system supply requirements for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are not subject to sharing under the market based rates incentive mechanism. BGE purchases the natural gas it resells to customers directly from many producers and marketers. BGE has transportation and storage agreements that expire from 2007 to 2028. BGEs current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve BGEs firm loads are 313,053 dekatherms (DTH) per day. BGEs current maximum storage entitlements are 235,080 DTH per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has: a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,092,977 DTH and a daily capacity of 311,500 DTH, and a propane air facility with a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 564,200 DTH and a daily capacity of 85,000 DTH. BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short term contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of short term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand. BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off system sales. Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance our supply of, and cost of, natural gas. 13 Gas Operating Statistics 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Revenues (In millions) Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only $ 490.2 $ 558.5 $ 478.0 $ 444.5 $ 342.1 Delivery Service Only 20.6 23.2 14.2 13.6 16.5 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 148.9 174.4 135.4 128.6 89.4 Delivery Service Only 35.9 31.9 28.0 24.6 29.2 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 7.5 10.5 9.4 11.5 9.3 Delivery Service Only 19.3 12.4 7.8 11.4 13.9 System Sales and Deliveries 722.4 810.9 672.8 634.2 500.4 Off System Sales 168.6 154.7 77.2 84.8 74.8 Other 8.5 7.2 7.0 7.0 6.1 Total $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 $ 726.0 $ 581.3 Distribution Volumes (In thousands) DTH Residential Excluding Delivery Service Only 33,019 39,107 39,080 40,894 35,364 Delivery Service Only 3,948 5,423 6,053 6,640 6,404 Commercial Excluding Delivery Service Only 11,683 14,133 13,248 13,895 11,583 Delivery Service Only 25,695 28,993 34,120 29,138 28,429 Industrial Excluding Delivery Service Only 604 921 865 1,143 1,207 Delivery Service Only 20,325 19,357 14,310 18,399 23,689 System Sales and Deliveries 95,274 107,934 107,676 110,109 106,676 Off System Sales 19,738 17,209 9,914 12,859 18,551 Total 115,012 125,143 117,590 122,968 125,227 Customers (In thousands) Residential 597.1 590.9 582.0 575.2 567.3 Commercial 42.3 42.0 41.6 41.1 40.7 Industrial 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.3 Total 640.6 634.1 624.8 617.5 609.3 Operating statistics do not reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. Delivery service only refers to BGEs delivery of commodity that was purchased by the customer from an alternate supplier. 14 Franchises BGE has nonexclusive electric and gas franchises to use streets and other highways that are adequate and sufficient to permit them to engage in their present business. Conditions of the franchises are satisfactory. Other Nonregulated Businesses Energy Projects and Services We offer energy projects and services designed primarily to provide energy solutions to large commercial and industrial and governmental customers. These energy products and services include: designing, constructing, and operating heating, cooling, and cogeneration facilities, energy savings projects and performance contracting, energy consulting and procurement services , services to enhance the reliability of individual electric supply systems, and customized financing alternatives. Home Products and Gas Retail Marketing We offer services to customers in Maryland including: home improvements, the service of heating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, and indoor air quality systems, and the sale of natural gas to residential customers. Consolidated Capital Requirements Our total capital requirements for 2006 were $1,149 million. Of this amount, $789 million was used in our nonregulated businesses and $360 million was used in our regulated business. We estimate our total capital requirements will be $1,915 million in 2007. We continuously review and change our capital expenditure programs, so actual expenditures may vary from the estimate above. We discuss our capital requirements further in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Capital Resources section. Environmental Matters The development (involving site selection, environmental assessments, and permitting), construction, acquisition, and operation of electric generating and distribution facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and land use laws and regulations. From the beginning phases of development to the ongoing operation of existing or new electric generating and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse laws and regulations that address emissions and impacts to air and water, protection of natural and cultural resources, and chemical and waste handling and disposal. We continuously monitor federal, state, and local environmental initiatives to determine potential impacts on our financial results. As new laws or regulations are promulgated, we assess their applicability and implement the necessary modifications to our facilities or their operation to maintain ongoing compliance. Our capital expenditures were approximately $100 million during the five year period 2002 2006 to comply with existing environmental standards and regulations. Our estimated environmental capital requirements for the next three years are approximately $335 million in 2007, $495 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2009. Air Quality Federal The Clean Air Act created the basic framework for the federal and state regulation of air pollution. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) The NAAQS are federal air quality standards authorized under the Clean Air Act that establish maximum ambient air concentrations for the following specific pollutants: ozone (smog), carbon monoxide, lead, particulates, sulfur dioxides (SO2), and nitrogen dioxides (NO2). In order for states to achieve compliance with the NAAQS, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005 to further reduce ozone and fine particulate pollution by addressing the interstate transport of SO2 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from fossil fuel fired generating facilities located primarily in the Eastern United States. In May 2005, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for ozone and rescinded a requirement to impose fees on emissions sources in certain areas, including certain of our generating facilities, for failure to achieve the previous ozone standard. States will be required to submit plans to the EPA to meet the new standard by 2007, at which time the standard will take effect. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for ozone will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. In December 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the requirement to impose fees on emissions sources based on the previous ozone standard remained applicable retroactive to November 2005 and remanded the issue to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict what action the EPA will take in response to the Courts decision and whether the fees will be retroactively assessed. The exact method of computing these fees has not been established and will depend in part on state implementation regulations that have not been finalized. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the ultimate financial impact of the fees in light of the uncertainty surrounding the methodology that 15 will be used in calculating the fees. However, any fees that are ultimately assessed could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. In September 2006, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for particulate matter. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for particulate matter will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. Hazardous Air Emissions In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) to reduce the emissions of mercury from coal fired facilities through a market based cap and trade program. CAMR will affect all coal or waste coal fired boilers at our generating facilities. New Source Review In connection with its enforcement of the Clean Air Acts new source review requirements, in 2000, the EPA requested information relating to modifications made to our Brandon Shores, Crane, and Wagner plants located in Maryland. The EPA also sent similar, but narrower, information requests to two of our newer Pennsylvania waste coal burning plants in which we have an ownership interest. We responded to the EPA in 2001, and as of the date of this report the EPA has taken no further action. Based on the level of emissions control that the EPA and states are seeking in these new source review enforcement actions, we believe that material additional costs and penalties could be incurred, and planned capital expenditures could be accelerated, if the EPA was successful in any future actions regarding our facilities. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia annulled the equipment replacement rule adopted by the EPA in August 2003, which established a threshold for determining when major new source review requirements are triggered. We believe the Court decision, which was anticipated, should have minimal effect on us as it maintains the existing rules for equipment replacement. However, we anticipate that the EPA will continue to examine the existing equipment replacement rules and may again propose new rules. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case, not involving us, relating to the new source review requirements. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of any future EPA regulatory action or the outcome of the U.S. Supreme Court proceeding, or their possible effect on our financial results. State Maryland has adopted the Healthy Air Act (HAA) and the Clean Power Rule (CPR), which establish annual SO2, NOx, and mercury emission caps for specific coal fired units in Maryland, including units located at three of our facilities. The requirements of the HAA and the CPR for SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions are more stringent and apply sooner than those under CAIR and CAMR. In addition, Pennsylvania has adopted regulations requiring coal fired generating facilities located in Pennsylvania to reduce mercury emissions sooner and to a greater extent than required under CAMR. Several other states in the northeastern U.S. continue to consider more stringent and earlier SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions reductions than those required under CAIR or CAMR. Capital Expenditure Estimates We expect to incur additional environmental capital spending as a result of complying with the air quality laws and regulations discussed above. Based on the information currently available to us about CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR, we will install additional air emission control equipment at our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at our co owned coal fired facilities in Pennsylvania to meet air quality standards. We include in our estimated environmental capital requirements capital spending for these projects, which we expect will be approximately $320 million in 2007, $470 million in 2008, $290 million in 2009 and $40 million from 2010 2011. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any additional federal and or state regulations or legislation, the implementation timetables for such regulation or legislation, and the specific amount of emissions reductions that will be required at our facilities. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope or timing of these projects with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. In addition, CAMR is subject to legal challenges filed by the states and industry and environmental groups. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these challenges, or their possible effect on our financial results. We believe that the additional air emission control equipment we plan to install will meet the emission reduction requirements under CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR. If additional emission reductions still are required, we will assess our various compliance alternatives and their related costs, and although we cannot yet estimate the additional costs we may incur, such costs could be material. 16 Global Climate Change Although uncertainty remains as to the nature and timing of greenhouse gas emissions regulation, there is an increasing likelihood that such regulation will occur at the federal and or state level. In the event that greenhouse gas emissions reduction legislation or regulations are enacted, we will assess our various compliance alternatives, which may include installation of additional environmental controls, modification of operating schedules or the closure of one or more of our coal fired generating facilities. Any compliance costs we incur could have a material impact on our financial results. The HAA requires that Maryland become a full participant in the Northeast Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) by June 2007. Under RGGI, it is expected that affected plants would participate in an auction to obtain sufficient CO2 allowances to support the level of emissions that result from plant operations. In addition, California has adopted regulations requiring our generating facilities in California to submit greenhouse gas emissions data to the state, which the state intends to use to develop a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the HAA and California CO2 emissions requirements and RGGI participation on our financial results; however, our compliance costs could be material. Water Quality The Clean Water Act established the basic framework for federal and state regulation of water pollution control and requires facilities that discharge waste or storm water into the waters of the United States to obtain permits. Water Intake Regulations In July 2004, the EPA published final rules under the Clean Water Act that require cooling water intake structures to reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts. We currently have six facilities affected by the regulation. The rule allows for a number of compliance options that will be assessed through 2007, following which we will determine whether any action is required and what our most viable options are if any action is required. Until we determine our most viable option under the final rules, we cannot estimate our compliance costs. However, the costs associated with the final rules could be material. In January 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that the EPAs rule did not properly implement the Clean Water Act requirements in a number of areas and remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any EPA regulatory action taken in response to the courts decision. However, any such action could impact our compliance approach, which could have a material effect on our financial results. Hazardous and Solid Waste We discuss proceedings relating to compliance with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our coal fired generating facilities produce approximately two and a half million tons of combustion by products (ash) each year. The EPA has announced its intention to develop national standards, currently scheduled to be proposed in May 2007, to regulate this material as a non hazardous waste, and is developing regulations governing the placement of ash in landfills, surface impoundments, and sand/gravel surface mines. The EPA is also developing regulations for ash placement in coal mines, which are expected to be proposed in October 2007. Federal regulation has the potential to result in additional requirements. Depending on the scope of any final requirements, our compliance costs could be material. As a result of these regulatory proposals, the remaining ash placement capacity at our current mine reclamation site and our current ash generation projections, we are exploring our options for the placement of ash, including construction of an ash placement facility. Over the next five years, we estimate that our capital expenditures for this project will be approximately $75 million. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any regulatory change, its implementation timetable, and the scope of the final requirements. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope and timing of this project with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. Employees Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 9,645 employees at December 31, 2006. At the Nine Mile Point facility, approximately 515 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 97. The labor contract with this union expires in June 2011. We believe that our relationship with this union is satisfactory, but there can be no assurances that this will continue to be the case. 17 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as counterparties). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured partys nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGEs recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGEs distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGEs, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGEs, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGEs, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Item 2. Properties Constellation Energys corporate offices occupy approximately 106,000 square feet of leased office space in Baltimore, Maryland. The corporate offices for most of our merchant energy business occupy approximately 268,000 square feet of leased office space in another building in Baltimore, Maryland. We describe our electric generation properties on the next page. We also have leases for other offices and services located in the Baltimore metropolitan region, and for various real property and facilities relating to our generation projects. BGE owns its principal headquarters building located in downtown Baltimore. In addition, BGE owns propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as discussed in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. BGE also has rights of way to maintain 26 inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expired in 2004. BGE is in the process of renewing the rights of way with Baltimore City for an additional 25 years. The expiration of the rights of way does not affect BGEs ability to use the rights of way during the renewal process. BGE has electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines located: in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises, and on rights of way secured for the most part by grants from owners of the property. All of BGEs property is subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage securing its mortgage bonds. The generation facilities transferred to our subsidiaries by BGE on July 1, 2000, along with the stock we own in certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage. We believe we have satisfactory title to our power project facilities in accordance with standards generally accepted in the energy industry, subject to exceptions, which in our opinion, would not have a material adverse effect on the use or value of the facilities. Our merchant energy business owns several natural gas producing properties. We also lease office space throughout North America, and in the United Kingdom and Australia to support our merchant energy business. 22 The following table describes our generating facilities: Plant Location Capacity (MW) % Owned Capacity Owned (MW) Primary Fuel (at December 31, 2006) Mid Atlantic Region Calvert Cliffs Calvert Co., MD 1,735 100.0 1,735 Nuclear Brandon Shores Anne Arundel Co., MD 1,286 100.0 1,286 Coal H. A. Wagner Anne Arundel Co., MD 963 100.0 963 Coal/Oil/Gas C. P. Crane Baltimore Co., MD 399 100.0 399 Oil/Coal Keystone Armstrong and Indiana Cos., PA 1,706 21.0 358 (A) Coal Conemaugh Indiana Co., PA 1,714 10.6 181 (A) Coal Perryman Harford Co., MD 355 100.0 355 Oil/Gas Riverside Baltimore Co., MD 200 100.0 200 Oil/Gas Handsome Lake Rockland Twp, PA 250 100.0 250 Gas Notch Cliff Baltimore Co., MD 120 100.0 120 Gas Westport Baltimore City, MD 116 100.0 116 Gas Philadelphia Road Baltimore City, MD 64 100.0 64 Oil Safe Harbor Safe Harbor, PA 417 66.7 278 Hydro Total Mid Atlantic Region 9,325 6,305 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements Nine Mile Point Unit 1 Scriba, NY 620 100.0 620 Nuclear Nine Mile Point Unit 2 Scriba, NY 1,138 82.0 933 Nuclear R.E. Ginna Ontario, NY 581 100.0 581 Nuclear Total Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2,339 2,134 Other Panther Creek Nesquehoning, PA 80 50.0 40 Waste Coal Colver Colver Township, PA 104 25.0 26 Waste Coal Sunnyside Sunnyside, UT 52 50.0 26 Waste Coal ACE Trona, CA 102 31.1 32 Coal Jasmin Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal POSO Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal Mammoth Lakes G 1 Mammoth Lakes, CA 6 50.0 3 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 2 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 3 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Soda Lake I Fallon, NV 4 50.0 2 Geothermal Soda Lake II Fallon, NV 10 50.0 5 Geothermal Rocklin Placer Co., CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Fresno Fresno, CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Chinese Station Jamestown, CA 22 45.0 10 Biomass Malacha Muck Valley, CA 32 50.0 16 Hydro SEGS IV Kramer Junction, CA 33 12.2 4 Solar SEGS V Kramer Junction, CA 24 4.2 1 Solar SEGS VI Kramer Junction, CA 34 8.8 3 Solar Total Other 643 238 Total Generating Facilities 12,307 8,677 (A) Reflects our proportionate interest in and entitlement to capacity from Keystone and Conemaugh, which include 2 MW of diesel capacity for Keystone and 1 MW of diesel capacity for Conemaugh. 23 The following table describes our processing facilities: Plant Location % Owned Primary Fuel A/C Fuels Hazelton, PA 50.0 Waste Coal Processing Gary PCI Gary, IN 24.5 Coal Processing Low Country Cross, SC 99.0 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel VA I Norton, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV I Chelyan, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV II Mount Storm, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV III Chester, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing Item 3. Legal Proceedings We discuss our legal proceedings in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders On December 8, 2006, we held our annual meeting of shareholders. At that meeting, the following matters were voted upon: 1. Class I Directors nominated by Constellation Energy were elected to serve for a term to expire in 2009 and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as follows: COMMON SHARES CAST: For Withheld Douglas L. Becker 119,241,432 14,048,574 Edward A. Crooke 122,520,333 10,769,673 Mayo A. Shattuck III 128,640,389 4,649,617 Michael D. Sullivan 119,327,025 13,962,981 All other directors whose term of office continued after the date of this meeting are: James T. Brady Freeman A. Hrabowski, III James R. Curtiss Nancy Lampton Yves C. de Balmann Robert J. Lawless Lynn M. Martin 2. The ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2006 was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 130,005,402, the number of votes cast against was 1,846,861, and the number of abstentions was 1,437,743. 3. The shareholder proposal requesting Constellation Energy to declassify the Board of Directors was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 76,259,034, the number of votes cast against was 7,688,559, the number of abstentions was 26,748,840, and the number of broker non votes was 22,593,573. 24 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Present Office Other Offices or Positions Held During Past Five Years Mayo A. Shattuck III 52 Chairman of the Board of Constellation Energy (since July 2002), President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy (since November 2001); and Chairman of the Board of BGE (since July 2002) None. E. Follin Smith 47 Executive Vice President (since January 2004), Chief Financial Officer (since June 2001) and Chief Administrative Officer (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (since January 2002) Senior Vice President Constellation Energy. Thomas V. Brooks 44 Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); and Vice Chairman (since August 2005) and Executive Vice President (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy President and Chief Executive Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Michael J. Wallace 59 President (since January 2002) and Chief Executive Officer (since May 2005) of Constellation Generation Group, LLC; and Executive Vice President of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) None. Thomas F. Brady 57 Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy. Irving B. Yoskowitz 61 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Constellation Energy (since June 2005) Senior Counsel Crowell & Moring (law firm); and Senior Partner Global Technology Partners, LLC (investment banking and consulting firm). Felix J. Dawson 39 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since May 2006) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. 25 George E. Persky 37 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Kenneth W. DeFontes, Jr. 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2004) Vice President, Electric Transmission and Distribution BGE. Paul J. Allen 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Corporate Affairs Constellation Energy. John R. Collins 49 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Risk Officer of Constellation Energy (since December 2001); and member of Board of Managers of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since September 2006) Vice President Constellation Energy. Beth S. Perlman 46 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Information Officer of Constellation Energy (since April 2002) Vice President Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Technology Enron Corporation. Marc L. Ugol 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Human Resources Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Tellabs, Inc. Officers are elected by, and hold office at the will of, the Board of Directors and do not serve a term of office as such. There is no arrangement or understanding between any director or officer and any other person pursuant to which the director or officer was selected. 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Stock Trading Constellation Energys common stock is traded under the ticker symbol CEG. It is listed on the New York and Chicago stock exchanges. As of January 31, 2007, there were 41,680 common shareholders of record. Dividend Policy Constellation Energy pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on Constellation Energy paying common stock dividends. Dividends have been paid continuously since 1910 on the common stock of Constellation Energy, BGE, and their predecessors. Future dividends depend upon future earnings, our financial condition, and other factors. In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.3775 to $0.435 per share payable April 2, 2007 to holders of record on March 12, 2007. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Quarterly dividends were declared on our common stock during 2006 and 2005 in the amounts set forth below. BGE pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on BGE paying common stock dividends unless: BGE elects to defer interest payments on the 6.20% Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures due 2043, and any deferred interest remains unpaid; or any dividends (and any redemption payments) due on BGEs preference stock have not been paid. Common Stock Dividends and Price Ranges 2006 2005 Dividend Price Dividend Price Declared High Low Declared High Low First Quarter $ 0.3775 $ 60.55 $ 54.01 $ 0.335 $ 53.55 $ 43.01 Second Quarter 0.3775 55.68 50.55 0.335 57.91 50.36 Third Quarter 0.3775 60.79 53.70 0.335 62.09 56.50 Fourth Quarter 0.3775 70.20 59.00 0.335 62.60 50.40 Total $ 1.51 $ 1.340 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The following table presents shares surrendered by employees to exercise stock options and to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock and stock option exercises. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid for Shares Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans and Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 565 $ 60.43 November 1 November 30, 2006 December 1 December 31, 2006 2,483 68.61 Total 3,048 $ 67.09 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Constellation Energy Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002(1) (In millions, except per share amounts) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 19,284.9 $ 16,968.3 $ 12,127.2 $ 9,342.8 $ 4,771.6 Total Expenses 18,025.2 16,023.8 11,209.1 8,395.5 3,711.5 Gain on Sale of Gas Fired Plants 73.8 Income From Operations 1,333.5 944.5 918.1 947.3 1,060.1 Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC 28.7 Other Income 66.1 65.5 25.5 20.6 33.8 Fixed Charges 328.7 310.2 326.8 336.3 277.3 Income Before Income Taxes 1,099.6 699.8 616.8 631.6 816.6 Income Taxes 351.0 163.9 118.4 222.2 301.2 Income from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 409.4 515.4 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes 187.8 94.4 41.3 66.3 10.2 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net of Income Taxes (7.2 ) (198.4 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 $ 277.3 $ 525.6 Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles Assuming Dilution $ 4.12 $ 2.98 $ 2.88 $ 2.45 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations 1.04 0.53 0.24 0.40 0.06 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles (0.04 ) (1.19 ) Earnings Per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 5.16 $ 3.47 $ 3.12 $ 1.66 $ 3.20 Dividends Declared Per Common Share $ 1.51 $ 1.34 $ 1.14 $ 1.04 $ 0.96 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 21,801.6 $ 21,473.9 $ 17,347.1 $ 15,593.0 $ 14,943.3 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 878.8 $ 491.3 $ 480.4 $ 343.2 $ 426.2 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 4,222.3 $ 4,369.3 $ 4,813.2 $ 5,039.2 $ 4,613.9 Minority Interests 94.5 22.4 90.9 113.4 105.3 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 4,609.3 4,915.5 4,726.9 4,140.5 3,862.3 Total Capitalization $ 9,116.1 $ 9,497.2 $ 9,821.0 $ 9,483.1 $ 8,771.5 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 4.05 3.04 2.71 2.69 3.31 Book Value Per Share of Common Stock $ 25.54 $ 27.57 $ 26.81 $ 24.68 $ 23.44 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. (1) Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 include $255.5 million of gains recognized on the sale of our outstanding shares of Orion Power Holdings, Inc. We discuss items that affect comparability between years, including acquisitions and dispositions, accounting changes and other items, in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Capital Resources section. Environmental Matters The development (involving site selection, environmental assessments, and permitting), construction, acquisition, and operation of electric generating and distribution facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and land use laws and regulations. From the beginning phases of development to the ongoing operation of existing or new electric generating and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse laws and regulations that address emissions and impacts to air and water, protection of natural and cultural resources, and chemical and waste handling and disposal. We continuously monitor federal, state, and local environmental initiatives to determine potential impacts on our financial results. As new laws or regulations are promulgated, we assess their applicability and implement the necessary modifications to our facilities or their operation to maintain ongoing compliance. Our capital expenditures were approximately $100 million during the five year period 2002 2006 to comply with existing environmental standards and regulations. Our estimated environmental capital requirements for the next three years are approximately $335 million in 2007, $495 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2009. Air Quality Federal The Clean Air Act created the basic framework for the federal and state regulation of air pollution. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) The NAAQS are federal air quality standards authorized under the Clean Air Act that establish maximum ambient air concentrations for the following specific pollutants: ozone (smog), carbon monoxide, lead, particulates, sulfur dioxides (SO2), and nitrogen dioxides (NO2). In order for states to achieve compliance with the NAAQS, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005 to further reduce ozone and fine particulate pollution by addressing the interstate transport of SO2 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from fossil fuel fired generating facilities located primarily in the Eastern United States. In May 2005, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for ozone and rescinded a requirement to impose fees on emissions sources in certain areas, including certain of our generating facilities, for failure to achieve the previous ozone standard. States will be required to submit plans to the EPA to meet the new standard by 2007, at which time the standard will take effect. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for ozone will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. In December 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the requirement to impose fees on emissions sources based on the previous ozone standard remained applicable retroactive to November 2005 and remanded the issue to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict what action the EPA will take in response to the Courts decision and whether the fees will be retroactively assessed. The exact method of computing these fees has not been established and will depend in part on state implementation regulations that have not been finalized. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the ultimate financial impact of the fees in light of the uncertainty surrounding the methodology that 15 will be used in calculating the fees. However, any fees that are ultimately assessed could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. In September 2006, the EPA adopted a stricter NAAQS for particulate matter. We are unable to determine the impact that complying with the stricter NAAQS for particulate matter will have on our financial results until the states in which our generating facilities are located adopt plans to meet the new standard. Hazardous Air Emissions In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) to reduce the emissions of mercury from coal fired facilities through a market based cap and trade program. CAMR will affect all coal or waste coal fired boilers at our generating facilities. New Source Review In connection with its enforcement of the Clean Air Acts new source review requirements, in 2000, the EPA requested information relating to modifications made to our Brandon Shores, Crane, and Wagner plants located in Maryland. The EPA also sent similar, but narrower, information requests to two of our newer Pennsylvania waste coal burning plants in which we have an ownership interest. We responded to the EPA in 2001, and as of the date of this report the EPA has taken no further action. Based on the level of emissions control that the EPA and states are seeking in these new source review enforcement actions, we believe that material additional costs and penalties could be incurred, and planned capital expenditures could be accelerated, if the EPA was successful in any future actions regarding our facilities. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia annulled the equipment replacement rule adopted by the EPA in August 2003, which established a threshold for determining when major new source review requirements are triggered. We believe the Court decision, which was anticipated, should have minimal effect on us as it maintains the existing rules for equipment replacement. However, we anticipate that the EPA will continue to examine the existing equipment replacement rules and may again propose new rules. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case, not involving us, relating to the new source review requirements. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of any future EPA regulatory action or the outcome of the U.S. Supreme Court proceeding, or their possible effect on our financial results. State Maryland has adopted the Healthy Air Act (HAA) and the Clean Power Rule (CPR), which establish annual SO2, NOx, and mercury emission caps for specific coal fired units in Maryland, including units located at three of our facilities. The requirements of the HAA and the CPR for SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions are more stringent and apply sooner than those under CAIR and CAMR. In addition, Pennsylvania has adopted regulations requiring coal fired generating facilities located in Pennsylvania to reduce mercury emissions sooner and to a greater extent than required under CAMR. Several other states in the northeastern U.S. continue to consider more stringent and earlier SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions reductions than those required under CAIR or CAMR. Capital Expenditure Estimates We expect to incur additional environmental capital spending as a result of complying with the air quality laws and regulations discussed above. Based on the information currently available to us about CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR, we will install additional air emission control equipment at our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at our co owned coal fired facilities in Pennsylvania to meet air quality standards. We include in our estimated environmental capital requirements capital spending for these projects, which we expect will be approximately $320 million in 2007, $470 million in 2008, $290 million in 2009 and $40 million from 2010 2011. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any additional federal and or state regulations or legislation, the implementation timetables for such regulation or legislation, and the specific amount of emissions reductions that will be required at our facilities. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope or timing of these projects with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. In addition, CAMR is subject to legal challenges filed by the states and industry and environmental groups. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these challenges, or their possible effect on our financial results. We believe that the additional air emission control equipment we plan to install will meet the emission reduction requirements under CAIR, CAMR, HAA, and CPR. If additional emission reductions still are required, we will assess our various compliance alternatives and their related costs, and although we cannot yet estimate the additional costs we may incur, such costs could be material. 16 Global Climate Change Although uncertainty remains as to the nature and timing of greenhouse gas emissions regulation, there is an increasing likelihood that such regulation will occur at the federal and or state level. In the event that greenhouse gas emissions reduction legislation or regulations are enacted, we will assess our various compliance alternatives, which may include installation of additional environmental controls, modification of operating schedules or the closure of one or more of our coal fired generating facilities. Any compliance costs we incur could have a material impact on our financial results. The HAA requires that Maryland become a full participant in the Northeast Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) by June 2007. Under RGGI, it is expected that affected plants would participate in an auction to obtain sufficient CO2 allowances to support the level of emissions that result from plant operations. In addition, California has adopted regulations requiring our generating facilities in California to submit greenhouse gas emissions data to the state, which the state intends to use to develop a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the HAA and California CO2 emissions requirements and RGGI participation on our financial results; however, our compliance costs could be material. Water Quality The Clean Water Act established the basic framework for federal and state regulation of water pollution control and requires facilities that discharge waste or storm water into the waters of the United States to obtain permits. Water Intake Regulations In July 2004, the EPA published final rules under the Clean Water Act that require cooling water intake structures to reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts. We currently have six facilities affected by the regulation. The rule allows for a number of compliance options that will be assessed through 2007, following which we will determine whether any action is required and what our most viable options are if any action is required. Until we determine our most viable option under the final rules, we cannot estimate our compliance costs. However, the costs associated with the final rules could be material. In January 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that the EPAs rule did not properly implement the Clean Water Act requirements in a number of areas and remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration. At this time, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any EPA regulatory action taken in response to the courts decision. However, any such action could impact our compliance approach, which could have a material effect on our financial results. Hazardous and Solid Waste We discuss proceedings relating to compliance with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our coal fired generating facilities produce approximately two and a half million tons of combustion by products (ash) each year. The EPA has announced its intention to develop national standards, currently scheduled to be proposed in May 2007, to regulate this material as a non hazardous waste, and is developing regulations governing the placement of ash in landfills, surface impoundments, and sand/gravel surface mines. The EPA is also developing regulations for ash placement in coal mines, which are expected to be proposed in October 2007. Federal regulation has the potential to result in additional requirements. Depending on the scope of any final requirements, our compliance costs could be material. As a result of these regulatory proposals, the remaining ash placement capacity at our current mine reclamation site and our current ash generation projections, we are exploring our options for the placement of ash, including construction of an ash placement facility. Over the next five years, we estimate that our capital expenditures for this project will be approximately $75 million. Our estimates are subject to significant uncertainties including the timing of any regulatory change, its implementation timetable, and the scope of the final requirements. As a result, we cannot predict our capital spending or the scope and timing of this project with certainty, and the actual expenditures, scope and timing could differ significantly from our estimates. Employees Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 9,645 employees at December 31, 2006. At the Nine Mile Point facility, approximately 515 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 97. The labor contract with this union expires in June 2011. We believe that our relationship with this union is satisfactory, but there can be no assurances that this will continue to be the case. 17 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10 K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as counterparties). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured partys nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGEs recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGEs distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGEs, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGEs, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGEs, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Item 2. Properties Constellation Energys corporate offices occupy approximately 106,000 square feet of leased office space in Baltimore, Maryland. The corporate offices for most of our merchant energy business occupy approximately 268,000 square feet of leased office space in another building in Baltimore, Maryland. We describe our electric generation properties on the next page. We also have leases for other offices and services located in the Baltimore metropolitan region, and for various real property and facilities relating to our generation projects. BGE owns its principal headquarters building located in downtown Baltimore. In addition, BGE owns propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as discussed in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. BGE also has rights of way to maintain 26 inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expired in 2004. BGE is in the process of renewing the rights of way with Baltimore City for an additional 25 years. The expiration of the rights of way does not affect BGEs ability to use the rights of way during the renewal process. BGE has electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines located: in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises, and on rights of way secured for the most part by grants from owners of the property. All of BGEs property is subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage securing its mortgage bonds. The generation facilities transferred to our subsidiaries by BGE on July 1, 2000, along with the stock we own in certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage. We believe we have satisfactory title to our power project facilities in accordance with standards generally accepted in the energy industry, subject to exceptions, which in our opinion, would not have a material adverse effect on the use or value of the facilities. Our merchant energy business owns several natural gas producing properties. We also lease office space throughout North America, and in the United Kingdom and Australia to support our merchant energy business. 22 The following table describes our generating facilities: Plant Location Capacity (MW) % Owned Capacity Owned (MW) Primary Fuel (at December 31, 2006) Mid Atlantic Region Calvert Cliffs Calvert Co., MD 1,735 100.0 1,735 Nuclear Brandon Shores Anne Arundel Co., MD 1,286 100.0 1,286 Coal H. A. Wagner Anne Arundel Co., MD 963 100.0 963 Coal/Oil/Gas C. P. Crane Baltimore Co., MD 399 100.0 399 Oil/Coal Keystone Armstrong and Indiana Cos., PA 1,706 21.0 358 (A) Coal Conemaugh Indiana Co., PA 1,714 10.6 181 (A) Coal Perryman Harford Co., MD 355 100.0 355 Oil/Gas Riverside Baltimore Co., MD 200 100.0 200 Oil/Gas Handsome Lake Rockland Twp, PA 250 100.0 250 Gas Notch Cliff Baltimore Co., MD 120 100.0 120 Gas Westport Baltimore City, MD 116 100.0 116 Gas Philadelphia Road Baltimore City, MD 64 100.0 64 Oil Safe Harbor Safe Harbor, PA 417 66.7 278 Hydro Total Mid Atlantic Region 9,325 6,305 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements Nine Mile Point Unit 1 Scriba, NY 620 100.0 620 Nuclear Nine Mile Point Unit 2 Scriba, NY 1,138 82.0 933 Nuclear R.E. Ginna Ontario, NY 581 100.0 581 Nuclear Total Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2,339 2,134 Other Panther Creek Nesquehoning, PA 80 50.0 40 Waste Coal Colver Colver Township, PA 104 25.0 26 Waste Coal Sunnyside Sunnyside, UT 52 50.0 26 Waste Coal ACE Trona, CA 102 31.1 32 Coal Jasmin Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal POSO Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal Mammoth Lakes G 1 Mammoth Lakes, CA 6 50.0 3 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 2 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 3 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Soda Lake I Fallon, NV 4 50.0 2 Geothermal Soda Lake II Fallon, NV 10 50.0 5 Geothermal Rocklin Placer Co., CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Fresno Fresno, CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Chinese Station Jamestown, CA 22 45.0 10 Biomass Malacha Muck Valley, CA 32 50.0 16 Hydro SEGS IV Kramer Junction, CA 33 12.2 4 Solar SEGS V Kramer Junction, CA 24 4.2 1 Solar SEGS VI Kramer Junction, CA 34 8.8 3 Solar Total Other 643 238 Total Generating Facilities 12,307 8,677 (A) Reflects our proportionate interest in and entitlement to capacity from Keystone and Conemaugh, which include 2 MW of diesel capacity for Keystone and 1 MW of diesel capacity for Conemaugh. 23 The following table describes our processing facilities: Plant Location % Owned Primary Fuel A/C Fuels Hazelton, PA 50.0 Waste Coal Processing Gary PCI Gary, IN 24.5 Coal Processing Low Country Cross, SC 99.0 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel VA I Norton, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV I Chelyan, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV II Mount Storm, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV III Chester, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing Item 3. Legal Proceedings We discuss our legal proceedings in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders On December 8, 2006, we held our annual meeting of shareholders. At that meeting, the following matters were voted upon: 1. Class I Directors nominated by Constellation Energy were elected to serve for a term to expire in 2009 and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as follows: COMMON SHARES CAST: For Withheld Douglas L. Becker 119,241,432 14,048,574 Edward A. Crooke 122,520,333 10,769,673 Mayo A. Shattuck III 128,640,389 4,649,617 Michael D. Sullivan 119,327,025 13,962,981 All other directors whose term of office continued after the date of this meeting are: James T. Brady Freeman A. Hrabowski, III James R. Curtiss Nancy Lampton Yves C. de Balmann Robert J. Lawless Lynn M. Martin 2. The ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2006 was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 130,005,402, the number of votes cast against was 1,846,861, and the number of abstentions was 1,437,743. 3. The shareholder proposal requesting Constellation Energy to declassify the Board of Directors was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 76,259,034, the number of votes cast against was 7,688,559, the number of abstentions was 26,748,840, and the number of broker non votes was 22,593,573. 24 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Present Office Other Offices or Positions Held During Past Five Years Mayo A. Shattuck III 52 Chairman of the Board of Constellation Energy (since July 2002), President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy (since November 2001); and Chairman of the Board of BGE (since July 2002) None. E. Follin Smith 47 Executive Vice President (since January 2004), Chief Financial Officer (since June 2001) and Chief Administrative Officer (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (since January 2002) Senior Vice President Constellation Energy. Thomas V. Brooks 44 Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); and Vice Chairman (since August 2005) and Executive Vice President (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy President and Chief Executive Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Michael J. Wallace 59 President (since January 2002) and Chief Executive Officer (since May 2005) of Constellation Generation Group, LLC; and Executive Vice President of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) None. Thomas F. Brady 57 Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy. Irving B. Yoskowitz 61 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Constellation Energy (since June 2005) Senior Counsel Crowell & Moring (law firm); and Senior Partner Global Technology Partners, LLC (investment banking and consulting firm). Felix J. Dawson 39 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since May 2006) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. 25 George E. Persky 37 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Kenneth W. DeFontes, Jr. 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2004) Vice President, Electric Transmission and Distribution BGE. Paul J. Allen 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Corporate Affairs Constellation Energy. John R. Collins 49 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Risk Officer of Constellation Energy (since December 2001); and member of Board of Managers of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since September 2006) Vice President Constellation Energy. Beth S. Perlman 46 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Information Officer of Constellation Energy (since April 2002) Vice President Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Technology Enron Corporation. Marc L. Ugol 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Human Resources Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Tellabs, Inc. Officers are elected by, and hold office at the will of, the Board of Directors and do not serve a term of office as such. There is no arrangement or understanding between any director or officer and any other person pursuant to which the director or officer was selected. 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Stock Trading Constellation Energys common stock is traded under the ticker symbol CEG. It is listed on the New York and Chicago stock exchanges. As of January 31, 2007, there were 41,680 common shareholders of record. Dividend Policy Constellation Energy pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on Constellation Energy paying common stock dividends. Dividends have been paid continuously since 1910 on the common stock of Constellation Energy, BGE, and their predecessors. Future dividends depend upon future earnings, our financial condition, and other factors. In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.3775 to $0.435 per share payable April 2, 2007 to holders of record on March 12, 2007. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Quarterly dividends were declared on our common stock during 2006 and 2005 in the amounts set forth below. BGE pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on BGE paying common stock dividends unless: BGE elects to defer interest payments on the 6.20% Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures due 2043, and any deferred interest remains unpaid; or any dividends (and any redemption payments) due on BGEs preference stock have not been paid. Common Stock Dividends and Price Ranges 2006 2005 Dividend Price Dividend Price Declared High Low Declared High Low First Quarter $ 0.3775 $ 60.55 $ 54.01 $ 0.335 $ 53.55 $ 43.01 Second Quarter 0.3775 55.68 50.55 0.335 57.91 50.36 Third Quarter 0.3775 60.79 53.70 0.335 62.09 56.50 Fourth Quarter 0.3775 70.20 59.00 0.335 62.60 50.40 Total $ 1.51 $ 1.340 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The following table presents shares surrendered by employees to exercise stock options and to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock and stock option exercises. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid for Shares Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans and Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 565 $ 60.43 November 1 November 30, 2006 December 1 December 31, 2006 2,483 68.61 Total 3,048 $ 67.09 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Constellation Energy Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002(1) (In millions, except per share amounts) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 19,284.9 $ 16,968.3 $ 12,127.2 $ 9,342.8 $ 4,771.6 Total Expenses 18,025.2 16,023.8 11,209.1 8,395.5 3,711.5 Gain on Sale of Gas Fired Plants 73.8 Income From Operations 1,333.5 944.5 918.1 947.3 1,060.1 Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC 28.7 Other Income 66.1 65.5 25.5 20.6 33.8 Fixed Charges 328.7 310.2 326.8 336.3 277.3 Income Before Income Taxes 1,099.6 699.8 616.8 631.6 816.6 Income Taxes 351.0 163.9 118.4 222.2 301.2 Income from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 409.4 515.4 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes 187.8 94.4 41.3 66.3 10.2 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net of Income Taxes (7.2 ) (198.4 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 $ 277.3 $ 525.6 Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles Assuming Dilution $ 4.12 $ 2.98 $ 2.88 $ 2.45 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations 1.04 0.53 0.24 0.40 0.06 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles (0.04 ) (1.19 ) Earnings Per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 5.16 $ 3.47 $ 3.12 $ 1.66 $ 3.20 Dividends Declared Per Common Share $ 1.51 $ 1.34 $ 1.14 $ 1.04 $ 0.96 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 21,801.6 $ 21,473.9 $ 17,347.1 $ 15,593.0 $ 14,943.3 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 878.8 $ 491.3 $ 480.4 $ 343.2 $ 426.2 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 4,222.3 $ 4,369.3 $ 4,813.2 $ 5,039.2 $ 4,613.9 Minority Interests 94.5 22.4 90.9 113.4 105.3 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 4,609.3 4,915.5 4,726.9 4,140.5 3,862.3 Total Capitalization $ 9,116.1 $ 9,497.2 $ 9,821.0 $ 9,483.1 $ 8,771.5 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 4.05 3.04 2.71 2.69 3.31 Book Value Per Share of Common Stock $ 25.54 $ 27.57 $ 26.81 $ 24.68 $ 23.44 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. (1) Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 include $255.5 million of gains recognized on the sale of our outstanding shares of Orion Power Holdings, Inc. We discuss items that affect comparability between years, including acquisitions and dispositions, accounting changes and other items, in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as counterparties). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured partys nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGEs recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGEs distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGEs, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGEs, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGEs, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Item 2. Properties Constellation Energys corporate offices occupy approximately 106,000 square feet of leased office space in Baltimore, Maryland. The corporate offices for most of our merchant energy business occupy approximately 268,000 square feet of leased office space in another building in Baltimore, Maryland. We describe our electric generation properties on the next page. We also have leases for other offices and services located in the Baltimore metropolitan region, and for various real property and facilities relating to our generation projects. BGE owns its principal headquarters building located in downtown Baltimore. In addition, BGE owns propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as discussed in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. BGE also has rights of way to maintain 26 inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expired in 2004. BGE is in the process of renewing the rights of way with Baltimore City for an additional 25 years. The expiration of the rights of way does not affect BGEs ability to use the rights of way during the renewal process. BGE has electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines located: in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises, and on rights of way secured for the most part by grants from owners of the property. All of BGEs property is subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage securing its mortgage bonds. The generation facilities transferred to our subsidiaries by BGE on July 1, 2000, along with the stock we own in certain of our subsidiaries, are subject to the lien of BGEs mortgage. We believe we have satisfactory title to our power project facilities in accordance with standards generally accepted in the energy industry, subject to exceptions, which in our opinion, would not have a material adverse effect on the use or value of the facilities. Our merchant energy business owns several natural gas producing properties. We also lease office space throughout North America, and in the United Kingdom and Australia to support our merchant energy business. 22 The following table describes our generating facilities: Plant Location Capacity (MW) % Owned Capacity Owned (MW) Primary Fuel (at December 31, 2006) Mid Atlantic Region Calvert Cliffs Calvert Co., MD 1,735 100.0 1,735 Nuclear Brandon Shores Anne Arundel Co., MD 1,286 100.0 1,286 Coal H. A. Wagner Anne Arundel Co., MD 963 100.0 963 Coal/Oil/Gas C. P. Crane Baltimore Co., MD 399 100.0 399 Oil/Coal Keystone Armstrong and Indiana Cos., PA 1,706 21.0 358 (A) Coal Conemaugh Indiana Co., PA 1,714 10.6 181 (A) Coal Perryman Harford Co., MD 355 100.0 355 Oil/Gas Riverside Baltimore Co., MD 200 100.0 200 Oil/Gas Handsome Lake Rockland Twp, PA 250 100.0 250 Gas Notch Cliff Baltimore Co., MD 120 100.0 120 Gas Westport Baltimore City, MD 116 100.0 116 Gas Philadelphia Road Baltimore City, MD 64 100.0 64 Oil Safe Harbor Safe Harbor, PA 417 66.7 278 Hydro Total Mid Atlantic Region 9,325 6,305 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements Nine Mile Point Unit 1 Scriba, NY 620 100.0 620 Nuclear Nine Mile Point Unit 2 Scriba, NY 1,138 82.0 933 Nuclear R.E. Ginna Ontario, NY 581 100.0 581 Nuclear Total Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2,339 2,134 Other Panther Creek Nesquehoning, PA 80 50.0 40 Waste Coal Colver Colver Township, PA 104 25.0 26 Waste Coal Sunnyside Sunnyside, UT 52 50.0 26 Waste Coal ACE Trona, CA 102 31.1 32 Coal Jasmin Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal POSO Kern Co., CA 34 50.0 17 Coal Mammoth Lakes G 1 Mammoth Lakes, CA 6 50.0 3 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 2 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Mammoth Lakes G 3 Mammoth Lakes, CA 12 50.0 6 Geothermal Soda Lake I Fallon, NV 4 50.0 2 Geothermal Soda Lake II Fallon, NV 10 50.0 5 Geothermal Rocklin Placer Co., CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Fresno Fresno, CA 24 50.0 12 Biomass Chinese Station Jamestown, CA 22 45.0 10 Biomass Malacha Muck Valley, CA 32 50.0 16 Hydro SEGS IV Kramer Junction, CA 33 12.2 4 Solar SEGS V Kramer Junction, CA 24 4.2 1 Solar SEGS VI Kramer Junction, CA 34 8.8 3 Solar Total Other 643 238 Total Generating Facilities 12,307 8,677 (A) Reflects our proportionate interest in and entitlement to capacity from Keystone and Conemaugh, which include 2 MW of diesel capacity for Keystone and 1 MW of diesel capacity for Conemaugh. 23 The following table describes our processing facilities: Plant Location % Owned Primary Fuel A/C Fuels Hazelton, PA 50.0 Waste Coal Processing Gary PCI Gary, IN 24.5 Coal Processing Low Country Cross, SC 99.0 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel VA I Norton, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV I Chelyan, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV II Mount Storm, WV 16.7 Synfuel Processing PC Synfuel WV III Chester, VA 16.7 Synfuel Processing Item 3. Legal Proceedings We discuss our legal proceedings in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders On December 8, 2006, we held our annual meeting of shareholders. At that meeting, the following matters were voted upon: 1. Class I Directors nominated by Constellation Energy were elected to serve for a term to expire in 2009 and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as follows: COMMON SHARES CAST: For Withheld Douglas L. Becker 119,241,432 14,048,574 Edward A. Crooke 122,520,333 10,769,673 Mayo A. Shattuck III 128,640,389 4,649,617 Michael D. Sullivan 119,327,025 13,962,981 All other directors whose term of office continued after the date of this meeting are: James T. Brady Freeman A. Hrabowski, III James R. Curtiss Nancy Lampton Yves C. de Balmann Robert J. Lawless Lynn M. Martin 2. The ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2006 was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 130,005,402, the number of votes cast against was 1,846,861, and the number of abstentions was 1,437,743. 3. The shareholder proposal requesting Constellation Energy to declassify the Board of Directors was approved. With respect to holders of common stock, the number of affirmative votes cast was 76,259,034, the number of votes cast against was 7,688,559, the number of abstentions was 26,748,840, and the number of broker non votes was 22,593,573. 24 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Present Office Other Offices or Positions Held During Past Five Years Mayo A. Shattuck III 52 Chairman of the Board of Constellation Energy (since July 2002), President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy (since November 2001); and Chairman of the Board of BGE (since July 2002) None. E. Follin Smith 47 Executive Vice President (since January 2004), Chief Financial Officer (since June 2001) and Chief Administrative Officer (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (since January 2002) Senior Vice President Constellation Energy. Thomas V. Brooks 44 Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); and Vice Chairman (since August 2005) and Executive Vice President (since January 2004) of Constellation Energy President and Chief Executive Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Michael J. Wallace 59 President (since January 2002) and Chief Executive Officer (since May 2005) of Constellation Generation Group, LLC; and Executive Vice President of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) None. Thomas F. Brady 57 Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development Constellation Energy. Irving B. Yoskowitz 61 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Constellation Energy (since June 2005) Senior Counsel Crowell & Moring (law firm); and Senior Partner Global Technology Partners, LLC (investment banking and consulting firm). Felix J. Dawson 39 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since May 2006) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. 25 George E. Persky 37 Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2006); and Co President and Co Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. (since August 2005) Co Chief Commercial Officer Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc.; and Managing Director Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. Kenneth W. DeFontes, Jr. 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Senior Vice President of Constellation Energy (since October 2004) Vice President, Electric Transmission and Distribution BGE. Paul J. Allen 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Corporate Affairs Constellation Energy. John R. Collins 49 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Risk Officer of Constellation Energy (since December 2001); and member of Board of Managers of Constellation Energy Partners LLC (since September 2006) Vice President Constellation Energy. Beth S. Perlman 46 Senior Vice President (since January 2004) and Chief Information Officer of Constellation Energy (since April 2002) Vice President Constellation Energy; and Vice President, Technology Enron Corporation. Marc L. Ugol 48 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Constellation Energy (since January 2004) Vice President, Human Resources Constellation Energy; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Tellabs, Inc. Officers are elected by, and hold office at the will of, the Board of Directors and do not serve a term of office as such. There is no arrangement or understanding between any director or officer and any other person pursuant to which the director or officer was selected. 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Stock Trading Constellation Energys common stock is traded under the ticker symbol CEG. It is listed on the New York and Chicago stock exchanges. As of January 31, 2007, there were 41,680 common shareholders of record. Dividend Policy Constellation Energy pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on Constellation Energy paying common stock dividends. Dividends have been paid continuously since 1910 on the common stock of Constellation Energy, BGE, and their predecessors. Future dividends depend upon future earnings, our financial condition, and other factors. In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.3775 to $0.435 per share payable April 2, 2007 to holders of record on March 12, 2007. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Quarterly dividends were declared on our common stock during 2006 and 2005 in the amounts set forth below. BGE pays dividends on its common stock after its Board of Directors declares them. There are no contractual limitations on BGE paying common stock dividends unless: BGE elects to defer interest payments on the 6.20% Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures due 2043, and any deferred interest remains unpaid; or any dividends (and any redemption payments) due on BGEs preference stock have not been paid. Common Stock Dividends and Price Ranges 2006 2005 Dividend Price Dividend Price Declared High Low Declared High Low First Quarter $ 0.3775 $ 60.55 $ 54.01 $ 0.335 $ 53.55 $ 43.01 Second Quarter 0.3775 55.68 50.55 0.335 57.91 50.36 Third Quarter 0.3775 60.79 53.70 0.335 62.09 56.50 Fourth Quarter 0.3775 70.20 59.00 0.335 62.60 50.40 Total $ 1.51 $ 1.340 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds The following table presents shares surrendered by employees to exercise stock options and to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock and stock option exercises. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid for Shares Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans and Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 565 $ 60.43 November 1 November 30, 2006 December 1 December 31, 2006 2,483 68.61 Total 3,048 $ 67.09 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Constellation Energy Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002(1) (In millions, except per share amounts) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 19,284.9 $ 16,968.3 $ 12,127.2 $ 9,342.8 $ 4,771.6 Total Expenses 18,025.2 16,023.8 11,209.1 8,395.5 3,711.5 Gain on Sale of Gas Fired Plants 73.8 Income From Operations 1,333.5 944.5 918.1 947.3 1,060.1 Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC 28.7 Other Income 66.1 65.5 25.5 20.6 33.8 Fixed Charges 328.7 310.2 326.8 336.3 277.3 Income Before Income Taxes 1,099.6 699.8 616.8 631.6 816.6 Income Taxes 351.0 163.9 118.4 222.2 301.2 Income from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 409.4 515.4 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes 187.8 94.4 41.3 66.3 10.2 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net of Income Taxes (7.2 ) (198.4 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 $ 277.3 $ 525.6 Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations and Before Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles Assuming Dilution $ 4.12 $ 2.98 $ 2.88 $ 2.45 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations 1.04 0.53 0.24 0.40 0.06 Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principles (0.04 ) (1.19 ) Earnings Per Common Share Assuming Dilution $ 5.16 $ 3.47 $ 3.12 $ 1.66 $ 3.20 Dividends Declared Per Common Share $ 1.51 $ 1.34 $ 1.14 $ 1.04 $ 0.96 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 21,801.6 $ 21,473.9 $ 17,347.1 $ 15,593.0 $ 14,943.3 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 878.8 $ 491.3 $ 480.4 $ 343.2 $ 426.2 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 4,222.3 $ 4,369.3 $ 4,813.2 $ 5,039.2 $ 4,613.9 Minority Interests 94.5 22.4 90.9 113.4 105.3 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 4,609.3 4,915.5 4,726.9 4,140.5 3,862.3 Total Capitalization $ 9,116.1 $ 9,497.2 $ 9,821.0 $ 9,483.1 $ 8,771.5 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 4.05 3.04 2.71 2.69 3.31 Book Value Per Share of Common Stock $ 25.54 $ 27.57 $ 26.81 $ 24.68 $ 23.44 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. (1) Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002 include $255.5 million of gains recognized on the sale of our outstanding shares of Orion Power Holdings, Inc. We discuss items that affect comparability between years, including acquisitions and dispositions, accounting changes and other items, in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis. 28 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and Subsidiaries 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In millions) Summary of Operations Total Revenues $ 3,015.4 $ 3,009.3 $ 2,724.7 $ 2,647.6 $ 2,547.3 Total Expenses 2,646.3 2,612.8 2,353.3 2,262.6 2,181.0 Income From Operations 369.1 396.5 371.4 385.0 366.3 Other Income (Expense) 6.0 5.9 (6.4 ) (5.4 ) 10.7 Fixed Charges 102.6 93.5 96.2 111.2 140.6 Income Before Income Taxes 272.5 308.9 268.8 268.4 236.4 Income Taxes 102.2 119.9 102.5 105.2 93.3 Net Income 170.3 189.0 166.3 163.2 143.1 Preference Stock Dividends 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 Earnings Applicable to Common Stock $ 157.1 $ 175.8 $ 153.1 $ 150.0 $ 129.9 Summary of Financial Condition Total Assets $ 5,140.7 $ 4,742.1 $ 4,662.9 $ 4,706.6 $ 4,779.9 Current Portion of Long Term Debt $ 258.3 $ 469.6 $ 165.9 $ 330.6 $ 420.7 Capitalization Long Term Debt $ 1,480.5 $ 1,015.1 $ 1,359.5 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,499.1 Minority Interest 16.7 18.3 18.7 18.9 19.4 Preference Stock Not Subject to Mandatory Redemption 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 190.0 Common Shareholders Equity 1,651.5 1,622.5 1,566.0 1,487.7 1,461.7 Total Capitalization $ 3,338.7 $ 2,845.9 $ 3,134.2 $ 3,040.3 $ 3,170.2 Financial Statistics at Year End Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 3.60 4.22 3.75 3.36 2.66 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends 2.99 3.45 3.08 2.82 2.31 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction and Overview Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy) is an energy company that conducts its business through various subsidiaries including a merchant energy business and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE). We describe our operating segments in Note 3. This report is a combined report of Constellation Energy and BGE. References in this report to we and our are to Constellation Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively. References in this report to the regulated business(es) are to BGE. We discuss our business in more detail in Item 1. Business section and the risk factors affecting our business in Item 1A. Risk Factors section. In this discussion and analysis, we will explain the general financial condition and the results of operations for Constellation Energy and BGE including: factors which affect our businesses, our earnings and costs in the periods presented, changes in earnings and costs between periods, sources of earnings, impact of these factors on our overall financial condition, expected future expenditures for capital projects, and expected sources of cash for future capital expenditures. As you read this discussion and analysis, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Income, which present the results of our operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We analyze and explain the differences between periods in the specific line items of our Consolidated Statements of Income. We have organized our discussion and analysis as follows: First, we discuss our strategy. We then describe the business environment in which we operate including how regulation, weather, and other factors affect our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting policies. These are the accounting policies that are most important to both the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. We highlight significant events that are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition. We then review our results of operations beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by operating segment. We review our financial condition addressing our sources and uses of cash, security ratings, capital resources, capital requirements, commitments, and off balance sheet arrangements. We conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Strategy We are pursuing a strategy of providing energy and energy related services through our competitive supply activities and BGE, our regulated utility located in Maryland. Our merchant energy business focuses on short term and long term purchases and sales of energy, capacity, and related products to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and industrial, commercial, and governmental customers. We obtain this energy through both owned and contracted supply resources. Our generation fleet is strategically located in deregulated markets and includes various fuel types, such as nuclear, coal, gas, oil, and renewable sources. In addition to owning generating facilities, we contract for power from other merchant providers, typically through power purchase agreements. We intend to remain diversified between regulated transmission and distribution and competitive supply. We will use both our owned generation and our contracted generation to support our competitive supply operations. We are a leading national competitive supplier of energy. In our wholesale and commercial and industrial retail marketing activities we are leveraging our recognized expertise in providing full requirements energy and energy related services to enter markets, capture market share, and organically grow these businesses. Through the application of technology, intellectual capital, process improvement, and increased scale, we are seeking to reduce the cost of delivering full requirements energy and energy related services and managing risk. We are also responding proactively to customer needs by expanding the variety of products we offer. Our wholesale competitive supply activities include a growing operation that markets physical energy products and risk management and logistics services to generators, distributors, producers of coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and other consumers. We trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Within our retail competitive supply activities, we are marketing a broader array of products and expanding our markets. Over time, we may consider integrating the sale of electricity and natural gas to provide one energy procurement solution for our customers. Collectively, the integration of owned and contracted electric generation assets with origination, fuel procurement, and risk management expertise, allows our merchant energy business to earn incremental margin and more effectively manage energy and commodity price risk over geographic regions and over time. Our focus is on providing solutions to customers energy needs, and our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation adds value to our owned and contracted generation assets by providing national market access, market infrastructure, real time market intelligence, risk management and arbitrage opportunities, and transmission and transportation expertise. Generation capacity supports our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation by providing a source of reliable power supply. 30 To achieve our strategic objectives, we expect to continue to pursue opportunities that expand our access to customers and to support our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation with generation assets that have diversified geographic, fuel, and dispatch characteristics. We also expect to grow through buying and selling a greater number of physical energy products and services to large energy customers. We expect to achieve operating efficiencies within our competitive supply operation and our generation fleet by selling more products through our existing sales force, benefiting from efficiencies of scale, adding to the capacity of existing plants, and making our business processes more efficient. We expect BGE and our other retail energy service businesses to grow through focused and disciplined expansion primarily from new customers. At BGE, we are also focused on enhancing reliability and customer satisfaction. Customer choice, regulatory change, and energy market conditions significantly impact our business. In response, we regularly evaluate our strategies with these goals in mind: to improve our competitive position, to anticipate and adapt to the business environment and regulatory changes, and to maintain a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit quality. We are constantly reevaluating our strategies and might consider: acquiring or developing additional generating facilities and gas properties to support our merchant energy business, mergers or acquisitions of utility or non utility businesses or assets, and sale of assets or one or more businesses. Business Environment With the evolving regulatory environment surrounding customer choice, increasing competition, and the growth of our merchant energy business, various factors affect our financial results. We discuss some of these factors in more detail in the Item 1. Business Competition section. We also discuss these various factors in the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. Over the last several years, the energy markets have been highly volatile with significant changes in natural gas, power, oil, coal, and emission allowance prices. The volatility of the energy markets impacts our credit portfolio, and we continue to actively manage our credit portfolio to attempt to reduce the impact of a potential counterparty default. We discuss our customer (counterparty) credit and other risks in more detail in the Market Risk section. In addition, the volatility of the energy markets impacts our liquidity and collateral requirements. We discuss our liquidity in the Financial Condition section. Competition We face competition in the sale of electricity, natural gas, and coal in wholesale energy markets and to retail customers. Various states have moved to restructure their electricity markets. The pace of deregulation in these states varies based on historical moves to competition and responses to recent market events. While many states continue to support retail competition and industry restructuring, other states that were considering deregulation have slowed their plans or postponed consideration. In addition, other states are reconsidering deregulation. All BGE electricity and gas customers have the option to purchase electricity and gas from alternate suppliers. We discuss merchant competition in more detail in Item 1. Business Competition section. The impacts of electric deregulation on BGE in Maryland are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation Senate Bill 1 In June 2006, Senate Bill 1 was enacted, which, among other things: directs the Maryland PSC to conduct a comprehensive review of Marylands deregulated electricity market, including the implications of requiring or allowing utilities to construct, acquire, or lease power generating facilities and alternative approaches to power procurement; expands the authority of the Maryland PSC to review acquisitions, dispositions, and financings by public service companies operating in Maryland; and directs Marylands taxing authority to consider whether property tax valuation methodologies applied to power plants located in Maryland should be revised in light of the values of those properties in a restructured electric industry. Because Senate Bill 1 requires additional decisions and proceedings by the Maryland PSC and other governmental authorities to implement and interpret many of its provisions, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the legislation on us, BGE, or the energy market in Maryland. The new legislation and its implementation through applicable regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. In addition, one or more parties may challenge in court one or more provisions of Senate Bill 1. The outcome of any challenges and the uncertainty that could result cannot be predicted. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 relating to residential electric customer rates in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Regulation by the Maryland PSC In addition to electric restructuring, which is discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section, regulation by the Maryland PSC significantly influences BGEs businesses. The Maryland PSC determines the rates that BGE can charge customers of its electric distribution and gas businesses. The Maryland PSC incorporates into BGEs standard offer service rates the transmission rates determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGEs electric rates are unbundled in customer billings to show separate components for delivery service (i.e. base rates), electric supply (commodity charge), transmission, a universal service surcharge, and certain taxes. The rates for BGEs regulated gas business continue to consist of a delivery charge (base rate) and a commodity charge. 31 Base Rates Base rates are the rates the Maryland PSC allows BGE to charge its customers for the cost of providing them delivery service, plus a profit. BGE has both electric base rates and gas base rates. Higher electric base rates apply during the summer when the demand for electricity is higher. Gas base rates are not affected by seasonal changes. BGE may ask the Maryland PSC to increase base rates from time to time. The Maryland PSC historically has allowed BGE to increase base rates to recover its utility plant investment and operating costs, plus a profit. Generally, rate increases improve the earnings of our regulated business because they allow us to collect more revenue. However, rate increases are normally granted based on historical data and those increases may not always keep pace with increasing costs. Other parties may petition the Maryland PSC to decrease base rates. In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. Electric Commodity and Transmission Charges BGE electric commodity and transmission charges (standard offer service), including the enactment of Senate Bill 1 in Maryland, are discussed in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Gas Commodity Charge BGE charges its gas customers separately for the natural gas they purchase. The price BGE charges for the natural gas is based on a market based rates incentive mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC. We discuss market based rates in more detail in the Regulated Gas Business Gas Cost Adjustments section and in Note 6. Federal Regulation FERC The FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of our business, including electric transmission and wholesale natural gas and electricity sales. We believe that FERCs continued commitment to fair and efficient wholesale energy markets should continue to result in improvements to competitive markets across various regions. Since 1997, operation of BGEs transmission system has been under the authority of PJM Interconnection (PJM), the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) for the Mid Atlantic region, pursuant to FERC oversight. As the transmission operator, PJM operates the energy markets and conducts day to day operations of the bulk power system. The liability of transmission owners, including BGE, and power generators is limited to those damages caused by the gross negligence of such entities. In addition to PJM, RTOs exist in other regions of the country such as the Midwest, New York, and New England. In addition to operation of the transmission system and responsibility for transmission system reliability, these RTOs also operate energy markets for their region pursuant to FERCs oversight. Our merchant energy business participates in these regional energy markets. These markets are continuing to develop, and revisions to market structure are subject to review and approval by FERC. We cannot predict the outcome of any reviews at this time. However, changes to the structure of these markets could have a material effect on our financial results. Ongoing initiatives at FERC have included a review of its methodology for the granting of market based rate authority to sellers of electricity. FERC has announced interim tests that will be used to determine the extent to which companies may have market power in certain regions. Where market power is found to exist, FERC may require companies to implement measures to mitigate the market power in order to maintain market based rate authority. In addition, FERC is reviewing other aspects of its granting of market based rate authority, including horizontal and vertical market power, affiliate abuse, and barriers to entry. We cannot determine the eventual outcome of FERCs efforts in this regard and their impact on our financial results at this time. In November 2004, FERC eliminated through and out transmission rates between the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) and PJM and put in place Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA) transition rates, which are paid by the transmission customers of MISO and PJM and allocated among the various transmission owners in PJM and MISO. The SECA transition rates were in effect from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. FERC set for hearing the various compliance filings that established the level of the SECA rates and has indicated that the SECA rates are being recovered from the MISO and PJM transmission customers subject to refund by the MISO and PJM transmission owners. In addition, FERC provided transmission customers that are charged the SECA rates with an opportunity to demonstrate that such charges should be shifted to their wholesale power suppliers. We are a recipient of SECA payments, payer of SECA charges, and supplier to whom such charges may be shifted. Administrative hearings regarding the SECA charges concluded in May 2006, and an initial decision from the FERC administrative law judge (ALJ) was issued in August 2006. The decision of the ALJ generally found in favor of reducing the overall SECA liability. The decision, if upheld, is expected to significantly reduce the overall SECA liability at issue in this proceeding. However, the ALJ also allowed SECA charges to be shifted to upstream suppliers, subject to certain adjustments. Therefore, certain charges could be shifted to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This decision will be reviewed by FERC. We are unable to predict the timing or final outcome of FERCs SECA rate proceeding. However, as the amounts collected under the SECA rates are subject to refund and the ultimate outcome of the proceeding establishing SECA rates is uncertain, the result of this proceeding may have a material effect on our financial results. In April 2006, FERC issued an initial order approving PJMs proposal to restructure its capacity market. Such a restructuring would change how we are paid for generating plant capacity available to PJM. However, FERC found that certain elements of the proposal needed further development before FERC could issue a final order and encouraged the parties to the proceeding, including Constellation Energy, to continue to seek a negotiated resolution of the remaining issues. Subsequently, 32 settlement discussions were conducted among the parties that resulted in a settlement being approved by FERC in December 2006, subject to requests for rehearing and potential further judicial review. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the capacity prices that will result from the restructuring, given that rules must still be developed, or the possible effect such prices will have on our, or BGEs, financial results. In February 2007, FERC adopted Order No. 890, which reforms the open access transmission regulatory framework. We are in the process of evaluating this rule and its possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results. Other market changes are routinely proposed and considered on an ongoing basis. Such changes will be subject to FERCs review and approval. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the possible effect on our, or BGEs, financial results at this time. Federal Energy Legislation The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005) was enacted in August 2005. The legislation encourages investments in energy production and delivery infrastructure, including further development of competitive wholesale energy markets, and promotes the use of a diverse mix of fuels and renewable technologies to generate electricity, including federal support and tax incentives for clean coal, nuclear, and renewable power generation. Effective February 2006, the legislation repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA 1935). In addition, EPACT 2005 significantly increased FERCs enforcement authority. There have been a number of FERC rulemaking proceedings that relate to the implementation of EPACT 2005 including proceedings relating to FERCs new responsibilities following the repeal of PUHCA 1935, its revised merger authority, its new authority over electric grid reliability, and its new authority with respect to addressing electric and gas market manipulation. FERC has moved expeditiously to implement its new authority under EPACT 2005 and has completed many of its rulemaking proceedings under EPACT 2005. Additional rulemaking remains to be completed, which could have a material impact on our, or BGEs, financial results. There are also rulemakings required from other federal agencies, the outcome of which could affect our financial results, but we cannot at this time predict such outcome or the actual effect on our financial results. Weather Merchant Energy Business Weather conditions in the different regions of North America influence the financial results of our merchant energy business. Weather conditions can affect the supply of and demand for electricity, gas, and fuels. Changes in energy supply and demand may impact the price of these energy commodities in both the spot market and the forward market, which may affect our results in any given period. Typically, demand for electricity and its price are higher in the summer and the winter, when weather is more extreme. The demand for and price of natural gas and oil are higher in the winter. However, all regions of North America typically do not experience extreme weather conditions at the same time, thus we are not typically exposed to the effects of extreme weather in all parts of our business at once. BGE Weather affects the demand for electricity and gas for our regulated businesses. Very hot summers and very cold winters increase demand. Mild weather reduces demand. Weather affects residential sales more than commercial and industrial sales, which are mostly affected by business needs for electricity and gas. The Maryland PSC approved a revenue decoupling mechanism which allows BGE to record a monthly adjustment to our regulated gas business revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns. We discuss this further in the Regulated Gas Business Revenue Decoupling section. Other Factors A number of other factors significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products for our merchant energy business. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, number of market participants, extreme peak demands, available supply resources, transportation and transmission availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, implementation of new market rules governing operations of regional power pools, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and international supply and demand. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, local transportation systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Other factors also impact the demand for electricity and gas in our regulated businesses. These factors include the number of customers and usage per customer during a given period. We use these terms later in our discussions of regulated electric and gas operations. In those sections, we discuss how these and other factors affected electric and gas sales during the periods presented. The number of customers in a given period is affected by new home and apartment construction and by the number of businesses in our service territory. Usage per customer refers to all other items impacting customer sales that cannot be measured separately. These factors include the strength of the economy in our service territory. When the economy is healthy and expanding, customers tend to consume more electricity and gas. Conversely, during an economic downturn, our customers tend to consume less electricity and gas. 33 Environmental Matters and Legal Proceedings We discuss details of our environmental matters in Note 12 and Item 1. Business Environmental Matters section. We discuss details of our legal proceedings in Note 12. Some of this information is about costs that may be material to our financial results. Accounting Standards Adopted and Issued We discuss recently adopted and issued accounting standards in Note 1. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including: our reported amounts of revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond managements control. As a result, actual amounts could materially differ from these estimates. Management believes the following accounting policies represent critical accounting policies as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC defines critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. We discuss our significant accounting policies, including those that do not require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates, in Note 1. Accounting for Derivatives Our merchant energy business originates and acquires contracts for energy, other energy related commodities, and related derivatives. We record merchant energy business revenues using two methods of accounting: accrual accounting and mark to market accounting. The accounting requirements for derivatives are governed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and applying those requirements involves the exercise of judgment in evaluating these provisions, as well as related implementation guidance and applying those requirements to complex contracts in a variety of commodities and markets. Many fundamental customer contracts in our business, such as those associated with our load serving activities, must be accounted for on an accrual basis. We may economically hedge these contracts with derivatives and elect cash flow hedge accounting or apply the normal purchase and normal sale exception in order to match more closely the timing of the recognition of earnings from these transactions. We make these elections because we believe that accrual accounting provides the most transparent presentation to our shareholders of these business activities. If our commercial transactions or related hedges meet the definition of a derivative, we must comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 133 in order to use cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchase and normal sale exception. Qualifying for either of these accounting treatments requires ongoing compliance with specific, detailed documentation and other requirements that may be unrelated to the economics of the transactions or how the associated risks are managed. While we believe we have appropriate controls in place to comply with these requirements, the failure to meet all of those requirements, even inadvertently, may result in disqualifying the use of these accounting treatments for those transactions for any affected period until all such requirements are satisfied. The exercise of managements judgment in using cash flow hedge accounting or electing the normal purchase and sale exception versus mark to market accounting, including compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements, materially impacts our financial results with respect to timing of the recognition of earnings. In addition, interpretations of SFAS No. 133 could continue to evolve. If there is a future change in interpretation or a failure to meet the qualification and documentation requirements, contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of SFAS No. 133 under the normal purchase and normal sale exception or for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income under cash flow hedge accounting could be deemed to no longer qualify for those accounting treatments. If that were to occur, normal purchase and normal sale contracts could be required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recorded in the income statement, and changes in value of derivatives previously designated as cash flow hedges could be required to be recorded in the income statement rather than in other comprehensive income. We record revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses from the sale or purchase of energy, energy related products, and energy services under the accrual method of accounting in the period when we deliver or receive energy commodities, products, and services, or settle contracts. We use accrual accounting for our merchant energy and other nonregulated business transactions, including the generation or purchase and sale of electricity, gas, and coal as part of our physical delivery activities and for power, gas, and coal sales contracts that are not subject to mark to market accounting. Contracts that are eligible for accrual accounting include non derivative transactions and derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales of commodities that will be physically delivered. The use of accrual accounting requires us to analyze contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or, if they are derivatives, whether they meet the requirements for designation as normal purchases and normal sales. For those derivative contracts that do not meet these criteria, we may also analyze whether they qualify for hedge accounting, including performing an evaluation of historical market price information to determine whether such contracts are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows from the risk being hedged. We record the fair value of derivatives for which we have 34 elected hedge accounting in Risk management assets and liabilities. We use the mark to market method of accounting for derivative contracts for which we do not elect to use accrual accounting or hedge accounting. These mark to market activities include derivative contracts for energy and other energy related commodities. Under the mark to market method of accounting, we record the fair value of these derivatives as mark to market energy assets and liabilities at the time of contract execution. We record the changes in mark to market energy assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consist of a combination of energy and energy related derivative contracts. While some of these contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. The market prices and quantities used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimate considering various factors. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. We record valuation adjustments to reflect uncertainties associated with certain estimates inherent in the determination of the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities. The effect of these uncertainties is not incorporated in market price information or other market based estimates used to determine fair value of our mark to market energy contracts. To the extent possible, we utilize market based data together with quantitative methods for both measuring the uncertainties for which we record valuation adjustments and determining the level of such adjustments and changes in those levels. We describe below the main types of valuation adjustments we record and the process for establishing each. Generally, increases in valuation adjustments reduce our earnings, and decreases in valuation adjustments increase our earnings. However, all or a portion of the effect on earnings of changes in valuation adjustments may be offset by changes in the value of the underlying positions. Close out adjustment represents the estimated cost to close out or sell to a third party open mark to market positions. This valuation adjustment has the effect of valuing long positions (the purchase of a commodity) at the bid price and short positions (the sale of a commodity) at the offer price. We compute this adjustment using a market based estimate of the bid/offer spread for each commodity and option price and the absolute quantity of our net open positions for each year. The level of total close out valuation adjustments increases as we have larger unhedged positions, bid offer spreads increase, or market information is not available, and it decreases as we reduce our unhedged positions, bid offer spreads decrease, or market information becomes available. To the extent that we are not able to obtain observable market information for similar contracts, the close out adjustment is equivalent to the initial contract margin, thereby resulting in no gain or loss at inception. In the absence of observable market information, there is a presumption that the transaction price is equal to the market value of the contract, and therefore we do not recognize a gain or loss at inception. We recognize such gains or losses in earnings as we realize cash flows under the contract or when observable market data becomes available. Credit spread adjustment for risk management purposes, we compute the value of our mark to market energy assets and liabilities using a risk free discount rate. In order to compute fair value for financial reporting purposes, we adjust the value of our mark to market energy assets to reflect the credit worthiness of each counterparty based upon either published credit ratings, or equivalent internal credit ratings and associated default probability percentages. We compute this adjustment by applying a default probability percentage to our outstanding credit exposure, net of collateral, for each counterparty. The level of this adjustment increases as our credit exposure to counterparties increases, the maturity terms of our transactions increase, or the credit ratings of our counterparties deteriorate, and it decreases when our credit exposure to counterparties decreases, the maturity terms of our transactions decrease, or the credit ratings of our counterparties improve. Market prices for energy and energy related commodities vary based upon a number of factors, and changes in market prices affect both the recorded fair value of our mark to market energy contracts and the level of future revenues and costs associated with accrual basis activities. Changes in the value of our mark to market energy contracts will affect our earnings in the period of the change, while changes in forward market prices related to accrual basis revenues and costs will affect our earnings in future periods to the extent those prices are realized. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the factors affecting market prices may change, but those changes could be material and could affect us either favorably or unfavorably. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The impact of derivative contracts on our revenues and costs is material and is affected by many factors, including: our ability to continue to designate and qualify derivative contracts for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting under the requirements of SFAS No. 133, as amended and as interpreted in supplemental guidance, potential volatility in earnings from ineffectiveness associated with derivatives subject to hedge accounting, potential volatility in earnings from derivative contracts that serve as economic hedges but do not meet the accounting requirements to qualify for normal purchase and normal sale accounting or hedge accounting, our ability to enter into new mark to market derivative origination transactions, and sufficient liquidity and transparency in the energy markets to permit us to record gains at inception of new derivative contracts because fair value is evidenced by quoted market prices, current market transactions, or other observable market information. 35 As discussed in Note 1, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which is effective January 1, 2008 and will affect our accounting for derivatives. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures for fair value measurements. Evaluation of Assets for Impairment and Other Than Temporary Decline in Value Long Lived Assets We are required to evaluate certain assets that have long lives (for example, generating property and equipment and real estate) to determine if they are impaired when certain conditions exist. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, provides the accounting requirements for impairments of long lived assets. We are required to test our long lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Examples of such events or changes are: a significant decrease in the market price of a long lived asset, a significant adverse change in the manner an asset is being used or its physical condition, an adverse action by a regulator or legislature or an adverse change in the business climate, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the construction or acquisition of an asset, a current period loss combined with a history of losses or the projection of future losses, or a change in our intent about an asset from an intent to hold to a greater than 50% likelihood that an asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For long lived assets that are expected to be held and used, SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss shall only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable under SFAS No. 144 if the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Therefore, when we believe an impairment condition may have occurred, we are required to estimate the undiscounted future cash flows associated with a long lived asset or group of long lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. This necessarily requires us to estimate uncertain future cash flows. In order to estimate future cash flows, we consider historical cash flows and changes in the market environment and other factors that may affect future cash flows. To the extent applicable, the assumptions we use are consistent with forecasts that we are otherwise required to make (for example, in preparing our other earnings forecasts). If we are considering alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a long lived asset (such as the potential sale of an asset), we probability weight the alternative courses of action to estimate the cash flows. We use our best estimates in making these evaluations and consider various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, and operating costs. However, actual future market prices and project costs could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. For long lived assets that can be classified as assets held for sale under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent their carrying amount exceeds their fair value less costs to sell. If we determine that the undiscounted cash flows from an asset to be held and used are less than the carrying amount of the asset, or if we have classified an asset as held for sale, we must estimate fair value to determine the amount of any impairment loss. The estimation of fair value under SFAS No. 144, whether in conjunction with an asset to be held and used or with an asset held for sale, also involves judgment. We consider quoted market prices in active markets to the extent they are available. In the absence of such information, we may consider prices of similar assets, consult with brokers, or employ other valuation techniques. Often, we will discount the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset using a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment or employ an expected present value method that probability weights a range of possible outcomes. The use of these methods involves the same inherent uncertainty of future cash flows as discussed above with respect to undiscounted cash flows. Actual future market prices and project costs could vary from those used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. We are also required to evaluate our equity method and cost method investments (for example, in partnerships that own power projects) to determine whether or not they are impaired. Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, provides the accounting requirements for these investments. The standard for determining whether an impairment must be recorded under APB No. 18 is whether the investment has experienced a loss in value that is considered an other than a temporary decline in value. The evaluation and measurement of impairments under the APB No. 18 standard involves the same uncertainties as described above for long lived assets that we own directly and account for in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Similarly, the estimates that we make with respect to our equity and cost method investments are subject to variation, and the impact of such variations could be material. Additionally, if the projects in which we hold these investments recognize an impairment under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, we would record our proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate our investment for an other than temporary decline in value under APB No. 18. Gas Properties We evaluate unproved property at least annually to determine if it is impaired under SFAS No. 19, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Properties. Impairment for unproved property occurs if there are no firm plans to continue drilling, lease expiration is at risk, or historical experience necessitates a valuation allowance. 36 Debt and Equity Securities Our investments in debt and equity securities, primarily our nuclear decommissioning trust fund assets, are subject to impairment evaluations under FASB Staff Position SFAS 115 1 and SFAS 124 1 (FSP 115 1 and 124 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. FSP 115 1 and 124 1 requires us to determine whether a decline in fair value of an investment below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If we determine that the decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment must be written down to fair value as a new cost basis. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We account for goodwill and other intangibles under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires us to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate the business might be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying value of the business exceeds fair value. Annually, we estimate the fair value of the businesses we have acquired using techniques similar to those used to estimate future cash flows for long lived assets as discussed on the previous page, which involves judgment. If the estimated fair value of the business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is required to be recognized to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill is greater than its fair value. Asset Retirement Obligations We incur legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain long lived assets. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, provides the accounting for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. We incur such legal obligations as a result of environmental and other government regulations, contractual agreements, and other factors. The application of this standard requires significant judgment due to the large number and diverse nature of the assets in our various businesses and the estimation of future cash flows required to measure legal obligations associated with the retirement of specific assets. FASB Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, clarifies that obligations that are conditional upon a future event are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 requires the use of an expected present value methodology in measuring asset retirement obligations that involves judgment surrounding the inherent uncertainty of the probability, amount and timing of payments to settle these obligations, and the appropriate interest rates to discount future cash flows. We use our best estimates in identifying and measuring our asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143. Our nuclear decommissioning costs represent our largest asset retirement obligation. This obligation primarily results from the requirement to decommission and decontaminate our nuclear generating facilities in connection with their future retirement. We utilize site specific decommissioning cost estimates to determine our nuclear asset retirement obligations. However, given the magnitude of the amounts involved, complicated and ever changing technical and regulatory requirements, and the very long time horizons involved, the actual obligation could vary from the assumptions used in our estimates, and the impact of such variations could be material. Significant Events Termination of Merger Agreement with FPL Group, Inc. On October 24, 2006, Constellation Energy and FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) agreed to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger the parties had entered into on December 18, 2005. We discuss the merger termination agreement in more detail in Note 15. Commodity Prices During 2006, we continued to experience significant changes in commodity prices. This volatile commodity price environment continues to impact our results of operations and financial conditions. This volatility contributed to the following changes in our financial statements: total mark to market assets decreased $510.3 million and total mark to market liabilities decreased $796.9 million since December 31, 2005, total risk management assets decreased $1,282.9 million and total risk management liabilities increased $528.3 million since December 31, 2005, net cash collateral requirements increased $630.6 million since December 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss increased $1,088.1 million since December 31, 2005, total revenues increased $2,316.6 million during 2006 compared to 2005, and total fuel and purchased energy expenses increased $1,691.1 million during 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the impact of commodity prices on our financial condition and results of operations in more detail in the following sections: Merchant Energy Results, Financial Condition, Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts, and Market Risk. Residential Electric Rates We discuss Senate Bill 1 enacted by the Maryland General Assembly in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition and Regulation sections. Gas Fired Plants In December 2006, we completed the sale of several gas fired plants for $1.6 billion in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $259.0 million, or $163.8 million after tax. We discuss the sale in more detail in Note 2. 37 Synthetic Fuel Facilities Our merchant energy business has investments in facilities that manufacture solid synthetic fuel produced from coal as defined under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for which we can claim tax credits on our Federal income tax return through 2007. The IRC provides for a phase out of synthetic fuel tax credits if average annual wellhead oil prices increase above certain levels. For 2006, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $55 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $68 per barrel. We discuss how we determine the amount of phase out in more detail in Note 10. Based on monthly EIA published wellhead oil prices for the ten months ended October 31, 2006 and November and December NYMEX prices for light, sweet, crude oil (adjusted for the 2006 difference between EIA and NYMEX prices), we estimate a 38% tax credit phase out in 2006. We recorded the effect of this phase out estimate as a reduction in tax credits of $44.3 million during 2006. For 2007, we estimate the tax credit reduction would begin if the reference price exceeds approximately $56 per barrel and would be fully phased out if the reference price exceeds approximately $70 per barrel. Based on forward market prices and volatilities as of February 22, 2007, we estimate a 21% tax credit phase out in 2007. However, the ultimate amount of tax credits phased out for 2007 is subject to change based on the actual reference price and production levels for the entire year. In addition, our ability to claim synthetic fuel tax credits and the potential phase out of these credits could be materially impacted by any future legislative changes to the Internal Revenue Code. We actively monitor and manage our exposure to synthetic fuel tax credit phase out as part of our ongoing hedging activities. In addition, we continue to monitor various options related to our South Carolina facility, including the suspension or cessation of synthetic fuel production depending on our expectation of the level of tax credit phase out. We will continue to monitor the level of synthetic fuel tax credit phase out based on forward market prices and volatilities and perform impairment analyses as warranted. A significant increase in synthetic fuel tax credit phase out could result in an impairment. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in synthetic fuel facilities is approximately $14 million, substantially all of which is related to our South Carolina facility. Workforce Reduction Costs During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, we incurred costs associated with a planned workforce restructuring at our R. E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant (Ginna). In July 2006, we announced a planned workforce restructuring at our Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station (Nine Mile Point). We also initiated a restructuring of the workforce at our Calvert Cliffs nuclear facility during the third quarter of 2006. In addition, during 2006, we recorded a settlement charge in our Consolidated Statements of Income for one of our qualified plans under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We discuss these restructurings and the settlement charge in more detail in Note 2. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired working interests in gas and oil producing fields. We discuss this acquisition in more detail in the Note 15. Initial Public Offering of Constellation Energy Partners LLC In November 2006, Constellation Energy Partners LLC (CEP), a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed its initial public offering of common units. CEP is principally engaged in the acquisition, development, and exploitation of natural gas properties. CEPs existing property is located in the Robinsons Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama. We discuss the impact of this initial public offering on our financial results in more detail in Note 2. Nine Mile Point License Extension In October 2006, we received Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for license extension for both units at our Nine Mile Point nuclear facility. With the renewed licenses, we can continue to operate Unit 1 until 2029 and Unit 2 until 2046. Ginna Uprate During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed a planned outage at our Ginna nuclear facility, which included an uprate of the plant from 498 megawatts to 581 megawatts. We expect that the increase in capacity of the facility will result in higher revenues in future years due to higher generation. Dividend Increase In January 2007, we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.435 per share on our common stock. This is equivalent to an annual rate of $1.74 per share. Previously, our quarterly dividend on our common stock was $0.3775 per share, equivalent to an annual rate of $1.51 per share. 38 Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our earnings and the factors affecting them. We begin with a general overview, and then separately discuss earnings for our operating segments. Significant changes in other income and expense, fixed charges, and income taxes are discussed in the aggregate for all segments in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. Overview Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions, after tax) Merchant energy $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Regulated electric 120.2 149.4 131.1 Regulated gas 37.0 26.7 22.2 Other nonregulated 11.3 0.4 (12.9 ) Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 748.6 535.9 498.4 Income from discontinued operations 187.8 94.4 41.3 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7.2 ) Net Income $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Other Items Included in Operations: Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Merger related costs (5.7 ) (15.6 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 63.6 $ (43.1 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. 2006 Our total net income for 2006 increased $313.3 million, or $1.69 per share, compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $144 million after tax at our merchant energy business due to higher gross margin from the Mid Atlantic Region. We discuss this increase in gross margin in more detail in the Mid Atlantic Region section. We had higher earnings from discontinued operations of $93.4 million after tax mostly due to the gain on sale of our High Desert facility. In addition, we had higher earnings of $47.1 million resulting from the recognition of a gain on sale of five other gas fired generating facilities. We discuss the sale of these plants in more detail in Note 2. We had higher wholesale competitive supply gross margin of approximately $105 million after tax. This increase was partially offset by approximately $68 million after tax of higher operating expenses mostly because of higher labor and benefit costs due to the growth of our wholesale competitive supply operation. We discuss our mark to market and wholesale accrual results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. We had higher earnings of $67.7 million after tax at our retail competitive supply operation primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses to support the growth of this operation. We discuss our retail gross margin in more detail in the Competitive Supply Retail section. We had higher earnings of approximately $18 million after tax due to the gain on the CEP initial public offering. This gain was partially offset by cash flow hedge losses of approximately $10 million after tax reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to revenues as a result of the initial public offering. We discuss the CEP transaction in more detail in Note 2. We had higher earnings of $10.3 million after tax from our regulated gas business primarily due to the favorable impact of the increase in gas base rates that was approved in December 2005. These increases were partially offset by the following: We had lower earnings of $30.1 million after tax at our synthetic fuel facilities mostly due to the expected phase out of tax credits as a result of the high price of oil. We discuss the phase out of tax credits in more detail in the Significant Events section. We had lower earnings of $29.2 million after tax from our regulated electric business primarily due to higher operations and maintenance expenses and lower revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses. We had lower earnings of $14.4 million after tax due to workforce reduction costs associated with workforce restructurings at our nuclear generating facilities. We discuss these costs in more detail in the Note 2. We had lower earnings of approximately $11 million after tax due to higher fixed charges and lower other income. We discuss these items in more detail in the Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses section. 2005 Our total net income for 2005 increased $83.4 million, or $0.35 per share, compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: We had higher earnings of approximately $58 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation. This increase is primarily due to the realization of higher gross margin, which included the termination or restructuring of several energy contracts and higher mark to market results in earnings. We discuss these terminations, restructurings, and mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. This increase in earnings was partially offset by higher load serving costs resulting from extreme weather and volatile commodity prices and higher operating expenses. We recorded higher income from discontinued operations of $53.1 million after tax. This increase is primarily due to a loss of $49.1 million after tax in 2004 related to the sale of our Hawaiian geothermal facility which had a negative impact in that period. We discuss discontinued operations in more detail in Note 2. 39 We had higher earnings of approximately $34 million after tax primarily due to higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance, and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings, and lower interest expense resulting from the maturity of $300.0 million in long term debt in 2005 and the favorable impact of floating rate swaps. We had higher earnings of $29.1 million after tax at our Nine Mile Point and Ginna facilities primarily due to productivity improvements and cost saving initiatives partially offset by inflationary cost increases and costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Ginna. We had higher earnings of $22.8 million after tax at our regulated businesses primarily due to favorable weather during 2005 compared to 2004. We had higher earnings of approximately $17 million after tax due to the absence of coal delivery issues that were experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. We had higher earnings from our other nonregulated businesses of $13.3 million after tax, including higher gains from the continued liquidation of our non core investments and the results of Cogenex, which was acquired in April 2005. We discuss the acquisition of Cogenex in more detail in Note 15. We had higher earnings at our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility of $7.6 million after tax due to a higher level of production in 2005 compared to 2004. These increases were partially offset by the following: Our merchant energy business recognized $35.9 million of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 which had a positive impact in that period. We had lower earnings at our retail competitive supply operation of $25.1 million after tax primarily due to higher costs to serve our load obligations in Texas and the absence of bankruptcy settlements that had a favorable impact in 2004. We had lower earnings of $25.1 million after tax related to losses associated with certain economic hedges that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. We discuss these economic hedges in more detail in the Mark to Market section. We had lower earnings of $15.6 million after tax due to external costs associated with the execution of our merger agreement with FPL Group. We had lower earnings of $20.0 million after tax due to lower competitive transition charge (CTC) revenues at our merchant energy business. We had lower earnings of $8.5 million after tax related to the impact of expensing stock options during the fourth quarter of 2005. We had lower earnings of $7.2 million after tax due to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47 and SFAS No. 123 Revised (SFAS No. 123R), Share Based Payment. We discuss the adoption of these standards in detail in Note 1. Earnings per share was impacted by additional dilution, including the issuance of 6.0 million shares of common stock on July 1, 2004. Merchant Energy Business Background Our merchant energy business is a competitive provider of energy solutions for various customers. We discuss the impact of deregulation on our merchant energy business in Item 1. Business Competition section. Our merchant energy business focuses on delivery of physical, customer oriented products to producers and consumers, manages the risk and optimizes the value of our owned generation assets, and uses our portfolio management and trading capabilities both to manage risk and to deploy risk capital to generate additional returns. We continue to identify and pursue opportunities which can generate additional returns through portfolio management and trading activities within our business. These opportunities have increased due to the significant growth in scale of our competitive supply operations. We record merchant energy revenues and expenses in our financial results in different periods depending upon which portion of our business they affect. We discuss our revenue recognition policies in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. We summarize our revenue and expense recognition policies as follows: We record revenues as they are earned and fuel and purchased energy expenses as they are incurred for contracts and activities subject to accrual accounting, including certain load serving activities. Prior to the settlement of the forecasted transaction being hedged, we record changes in the fair value of contracts designated as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. We record the effective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges in earnings in the period the settlement of the hedged transaction occurs. We record the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of hedges, if any, in earnings in the period in which the change occurs. We record changes in the fair value of contracts that are subject to mark to market accounting in revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses in the period in which the change occurs. Mark to market accounting requires us to make estimates and assumptions using judgment in determining the fair value of certain contracts and in recording revenues from those contracts. We discuss the effects of mark to market accounting on our results in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market section. We discuss mark to market accounting and the accounting policies for the merchant energy business further in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation actively transacts in energy and energy related commodities in order to manage our portfolio of energy purchases and sales to customers through structured transactions. As part of these activities we trade energy and energy related commodities and deploy risk capital in the management of our portfolio in order to earn additional returns. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, and may have a material impact on our financial results. We discuss the impact of our trading activities and value at risk in more detail in the Competitive Supply Mark to Market and Market Risk sections. 40 Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (14,256.3 ) (12,301.8 ) (8,118.1 ) Operating expenses (1,549.4 ) (1,346.1 ) (1,149.9 ) Workforce reduction costs (28.2 ) (4.4 ) (9.7 ) Merger related transaction costs (13.1 ) (11.2 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (258.7 ) (250.4 ) (221.9 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations (67.6 ) (62.0 ) (53.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (120.0 ) (106.7 ) (83.3 ) Gain on sale of gas fired plants 73.8 Income from Operations $ 946.7 $ 539.8 $ 552.3 Income from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 580.1 $ 359.4 $ 358.0 Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 186.9 73.8 31.9 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) (7.4 ) Net Income $ 767.0 $ 425.8 $ 389.9 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Gain on sale of gas fired plants $ 47.1 $ $ Non qualifying hedges 39.2 (24.9 ) 0.2 Merger related costs (4.3 ) (10.4 ) Workforce reduction costs (17.0 ) (2.6 ) (5.9 ) Recognition of 2003 synthetic fuel tax credits 35.9 Total Other Items $ 65.0 $ (37.9 ) $ 30.2 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses Our merchant energy business manages the revenues we realize from the sale of energy to our customers and our costs of procuring fuel and energy. As previously discussed, our merchant energy business uses either accrual or mark to market accounting to record our revenues and expenses. Mark to market results reflect the net impact of amounts recorded in either revenues or fuel and purchased energy expenses to recognize changes in fair value of derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting during the reporting period. The difference between revenues and fuel and purchased energy expenses, including all direct expenses, is the gross margin of our merchant energy business, and this measure is a useful tool for assessing the profitability of our merchant energy business. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to discuss the operating results of our merchant energy business by analyzing the changes in gross margin between periods. In managing our portfolio, we may terminate, restructure, or acquire contracts. Such transactions are within the normal course of managing our portfolio and may materially impact the timing of our recognition of revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and cash flows. We analyze our merchant energy gross margin in the following categories because of the risk profile of each category, differences in the revenue sources, and the nature of fuel and purchased energy expenses. With the exception of a portion of our competitive supply activities that we are required to account for using the mark to market method of accounting, all of these activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. Mid Atlantic Region our fossil, nuclear, and hydroelectric generating facilities and load serving activities in the PJM Interconnection (PJM) region. This also includes active portfolio management of the generating assets and other physical and financial contractual arrangements, as well as other PJM competitive supply activities. In addition, due to the expiration of its power purchase agreement, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of our University Park generating facility are included with the Mid Atlantic Region. University Park was previously included in Plants with Power Purchase Agreements. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements our generating facilities outside the Mid Atlantic Region with long term power purchase agreements. As discussed in Note 2, the sale of the High Desert facility resulted in a reclassification of its results of operations to discontinued operations. Wholesale Competitive Supply our marketing, risk management, and trading operation that provides energy products and services primarily to distribution utilities, power generators, and other wholesale customers. We also provide global energy and related services and upstream and downstream natural gas services. Retail Competitive Supply our operation that provides electric and gas energy products and services to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Other our investments in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects and our generation operations and maintenance services. In December 2006, we completed the sale of these gas fired plants: Facility Capacity (MW) Unit Type Location High Desert 830 Combined Cycle California Rio Nogales 800 Combined Cycle Texas Holland 665 Combined Cycle Illinois University Park 300 Peaking Illinois Big Sandy 300 Peaking West Virginia Wolf Hills 250 Peaking Virginia We discuss the sale of these gas fired generating facilities in Note 2. 41 We provide a summary of our revenues, fuel and purchased energy expenses, and gross margin as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Revenues: Mid Atlantic Region $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 650.5 665.9 555.3 Competitive Supply Retail 8,014.7 6,942.3 4,280.0 Wholesale 5,612.7 4,672.3 3,353.8 Other 74.8 58.0 73.6 Total $ 17,166.2 $ 14,622.4 $ 10,188.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses: Mid Atlantic Region $ (1,727.6 ) $ (1,436.5 ) $ (946.9 ) Plants with Power Purchase Agreements (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Competitive Supply Retail (7,570.2 ) (6,668.2 ) (4,011.4 ) Wholesale (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Other Total $ (14,256.3 ) $ (12,301.8 ) $ (8,118.1 ) % of Total % of Total % of Total Gross margin: Mid Atlantic Region $ 1,085.9 37 % $ 847.4 36 % $ 978.7 47 % Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 582.6 20 593.4 25 508.9 25 Competitive Supply Retail 444.5 15 274.1 12 268.6 13 Wholesale 722.1 25 547.7 24 240.4 12 Other 74.8 3 58.0 3 73.6 3 Total $ 2,909.9 100 % $ 2,320.6 100 % $ 2,070.2 100 % Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Mid Atlantic Region 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,813.5 $ 2,283.9 $ 1,925.6 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (1,727.6 ) (1,436.5 ) (946.9 ) Gross margin $ 1,085.9 $ 847.4 $ 978.7 The increase of $238.5 million in gross margin in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to approximately $340 million in higher gross margin mostly from favorable portfolio management, including higher margins on existing contracts and new contracts that began in 2006. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation was awarded contracts in 2006 to supply a substantial portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to residential customers beginning July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. The increase in gross margin included higher revenues from BGE of approximately $256 million mostly from these new contracts during 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in gross margin was partially offset by the negative impact of higher expenses from serving the original BGE standard offer service obligation during the first six months of 2006 as variable costs, including emissions and coal, continued to increase. We discuss the expiration of the BGE residential rate freeze in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Deregulation and Competition section. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation served fixed price standard offer service obligations to BGE residential customers during the period from July 1, 2000 until July 1, 2006. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by: lower CTC revenues of approximately $64 million due to customers that completed their obligation and the continued decline in the CTC rate, and lower generation at Calvert Cliffs, which resulted in lower gross margin of approximately $37 million, mostly because of a longer planned 2006 refueling outage that included replacement of the reactor vessel head. The decrease in Mid Atlantic Region gross margin in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to rising commodity prices and hotter than normal weather during the third quarter of 2005, which resulted in higher load serving costs. In addition, CTC revenues were $33.1 million lower during 2005 compared to 2004. These decreases in gross margin were partially offset by the absence of coal delivery issues that we experienced in 2004 that had a negative impact in that period. Plants with Power Purchase Agreements 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 650.5 $ 665.9 $ 555.3 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (67.9 ) (72.5 ) (46.4 ) Gross margin $ 582.6 $ 593.4 $ 508.9 Gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements decreased slightly in 2006 compared to the same periods of 2005. This was mostly due to approximately $14 million in lower gross margin from the University Park facility. As discussed in the Revenues and Fuel and Purchased Energy Expenses section, the University Park power purchase agreement expired in May 2006. As a result, beginning in June 2006 until its sale in December 2006, the results of University Park are included in the Mid Atlantic Region. The increase in gross margin from our Plants with Power Purchase Agreements in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to: higher gross margin of $71.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004. This increase in gross margin at Ginna includes an increase in revenues of $76.9 million, and higher gross margin of $39.0 million at our Nine Mile Point facility that benefited from higher generation primarily due to fewer refueling outage days, the absence of an unplanned outage that occurred in January 2004, and higher prices on the portion of our output sold into the wholesale market. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by $26.0 million primarily related to changes in commodity prices that had a negative impact on realized hedging activities related to the portion of these facilities sold into the wholesale market. 42 Competitive Supply We analyze our retail accrual, wholesale accrual, and mark to market competitive supply activities below. Retail 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 8,000.6 $ 6,944.2 $ 4,281.0 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (7,577.0 ) (6,688.4 ) (4,011.4 ) Retail accrual activities 423.6 255.8 269.6 Mark to market activities 20.9 18.3 (1.0 ) Gross margin $ 444.5 $ 274.1 $ 268.6 The increase in accrual gross margin of $167.8 million from our retail activities during 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to: approximately $158 million in higher margins primarily due to higher electric rates and lower costs related to our fixed price load serving obligations as a result of milder weather in 2006 compared to the prior year, and approximately $13 million in higher gross margin due to higher volumes, including 3.6 million more megawatt hours of electricity and 55 billion cubic feet more of natural gas served to retail customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in gross margin from our retail competitive supply accrual activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to: a combination of higher market prices for electricity, price volatility, and increased customer usage primarily in Texas resulting mostly from extreme summer weather, which increased our cost to serve our fixed price load serving obligations, the expiration of higher margin contracts, and the absence of favorable bankruptcy settlements, which had a positive impact in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by serving approximately 20 million more megawatt hours in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the growth of this operation. Wholesale 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Accrual revenues $ 5,232.7 $ 4,281.8 $ 3,253.7 Fuel and purchased energy expenses (4,890.6 ) (4,124.6 ) (3,113.4 ) Wholesale accrual activities 342.1 157.2 140.3 Mark to market activities 380.0 390.5 100.1 Gross margin $ 722.1 $ 547.7 $ 240.4 Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had $184.9 million of higher gross margin from accrual activities during 2006 compared to 2005 due to: an increase of approximately $145 million primarily due to new contracts entered into during 2006 and higher realized gross margin on existing contracts, and an increase of approximately $85 million primarily related to the growth in our coal and natural gas activities. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by the following: a decrease of $24.8 million as a result of the initial public offering of CEP and the sale of our gas fired plants. As a result of these transactions, forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges were determined to be probable of not occurring, and the associated amounts previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified into earnings, and a decrease of approximately $20 million from contract restructurings related to unit contingent power purchase agreements during the year ended December 2006 compared to 2005. The termination and sale of these contracts has allowed us to eliminate our exposure to performance risk under these contracts. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations accrual gross margin was $16.9 million higher in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to newly originated and realized business in power, gas, and coal in 2005, including several contract terminations and restructurings. During 2005, we terminated or restructured several in the money contracts in exchange for upfront cash payments and a reduction or cancellation of future performance obligations. The termination or restructuring of two contracts allowed us to lower our exposure to performance risk under these contracts, and resulted in the realization of $77.0 million of pre tax earnings in 2005 that would have been recognized over the life of these contracts. These increases were partially offset by lower gross margins of approximately $60 million mostly due to the absence of several favorable items, including settlements, power prices, and contracts that had a positive impact in 2004. Mark to Market Mark to market results include net gains and losses from origination, trading, and risk management activities for which we use the mark to market method of accounting. We discuss these activities and the mark to market method of accounting in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section and in Note 1. As a result of the nature of our operations and the use of mark to market accounting for certain activities, mark to market earnings will fluctuate. We cannot predict these fluctuations, but the impact on our earnings could be material. We discuss our market risk in more detail in the Market Risk section. The primary factors that cause fluctuations in our mark to market results are: the number, size, and profitability of new transactions including terminations or restructuring of existing contracts, the number and size of our open derivative positions, and changes in the level and volatility of forward commodity prices and interest rates. 43 Mark to market results were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Unrealized mark to market results Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 $ 19.7 Risk management and trading mark to market Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 79.4 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) (85.4 ) Total risk management and trading mark to market 15.3 89.5 (6.0 ) Total unrealized mark to market* 28.8 151.1 13.7 Realized mark to market 372.1 257.7 85.4 Total mark to market results $ 400.9 $ 408.8 $ 99.1 * Total unrealized mark to market is the sum of origination transactions and total risk management and trading mark to market. Origination gains arise primarily from contracts that our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation structures to meet the risk management needs of our customers or relate to our trading activities. Transactions that result in origination gains may be unique and provide the potential for individually significant gains from a single transaction. Origination gains represent the initial fair value recognized on these structured transactions. The recognition of origination gains is dependent on the existence of observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Origination gains arose primarily from: 3 transactions completed in 2006, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax, 6 transactions completed in 2005, one of which contributed approximately $35 million pre tax, and 7 transactions completed in 2004, of which no transaction contributed in excess of $10 million pre tax. As noted above, the recognition of origination gains is dependent on sufficient observable market data that validates the initial fair value of the contract. Liquidity and market conditions impact our ability to identify sufficient, objective market price information to permit recognition of origination gains. As a result, while our strategy and competitive position provide the opportunity to continue to originate such transactions, the level of origination gains we are able to recognize may vary from year to year as a result of the number, size, and market price transparency of the individual transactions executed in any period. Risk management and trading mark to market represents both realized and unrealized gains and losses from changes in the value of our portfolio, including the recognition of gains associated with decreases in the close out adjustment when we are able to obtain sufficient market price information. In addition, we use derivative contracts subject to mark to market accounting to manage our exposure to changes in market prices primarily as a result of our gas transportation and storage activities, while in general the underlying physical transactions related to our gas activities are accounted for on an accrual basis. We discuss the changes in mark to market results below. We show the relationship between our mark to market results and the change in our net mark to market energy asset on the next page. Total mark to market results decreased $7.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because of a decrease in origination gains of $48.1 million, mostly offset by an increase in unrealized changes in fair value of $40.2 million. Unrealized changes in fair value increased primarily due to higher pre tax gains of approximately $105 million related to the positive impact of certain economic hedges primarily related to gas transportation and storage contracts that do not qualify for or are not designated as cash flow hedges. These mark to market results will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. This increase in unrealized changes in fair value was partially offset by: a lower level of gains from risk management and trading mark to market activities of approximately $45 million, and the absence of a $19.5 million favorable impact related to changes in the close out adjustment in 2006 compared to 2005. The close out adjustments are determined by the change in open positions, new transactions where we did not have observable market price information, and existing transactions where we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. We discuss the close out adjustment in more detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section. Total mark to market results increased $309.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to: approximately $260 million primarily related to a higher level of risk management and trading activities. Increases in our gas and coal activities, higher commodity price volatility, and greater market liquidity resulted in more opportunities to deploy risk capital and to earn additional returns in 2005 compared to 2004. These items resulted in an increased number of transactions that were entered into and realized during 2005 and a higher level of open positions that resulted in increased gains in 2005 compared to 2004. During 2005, slightly more than half of the mark to market results were derived from power, approximately one third from gas, and the remainder from other transactions. $41.9 million related to a higher level of origination gains as discussed above, and $49.9 million related to the decrease in the close out adjustment during 2005 compared to the prior year for transactions that we have now observed sufficient market price information and or we realized cash flows since the transactions inception. These increases in mark to market results were partially offset by the impact of $41.5 million of higher mark to market losses on certain economic hedges that did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. Changing forward prices result in shifting value between accrual contracts and the associated mark to market positions of certain contracts in New England that contain fuel adjustment clauses and gas transportation contract hedges, producing a timing difference in the recognition of earnings on these transactions. These 44 mark to market hedges are economically effective; however, they do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, we recorded $41.2 million of pre tax losses in 2005 and $0.3 million of pre tax gains in 2004. These mark to market gains and losses will be offset as we realize the related accrual load serving positions in cash. Mark to Market Energy Assets and Liabilities Our mark to market energy assets and liabilities are comprised of derivative contracts. While some of our mark to market contracts represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We discuss our modeling techniques later in this section. Mark to market energy assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 1,294.8 $ 1,339.2 Noncurrent Assets 623.4 1,089.3 Total Assets 1,918.2 2,428.5 Current Liabilities 1,071.7 1,348.7 Noncurrent Liabilities 392.4 912.3 Total Liabilities 1,464.1 2,261.0 Net mark to market energy asset $ 454.1 $ 167.5 The following are the primary sources of the change in net mark to market energy asset during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (In millions) Fair value beginning of year $ 167.5 $ 52.4 Changes in fair value recorded in earnings Origination gains $ 13.5 $ 61.6 Unrealized changes in fair value 387.4 347.2 Changes in valuation techniques Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (372.1 ) (257.7 ) Total changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28.8 151.1 Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options 277.8 (119.9 ) Net change in premiums on options (29.8 ) 79.7 Contracts acquired 17.4 Other changes in fair value 9.8 (13.2 ) Fair value at end of year $ 454.1 $ 167.5 Changes in the net mark to market energy asset that affected earnings were as follows: Origination gains represent the initial unrealized fair value at the time these contracts are executed to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules. Unrealized changes in fair value represent unrealized changes in commodity prices, the volatility of options on commodities, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments. Changes in valuation techniques represent improvements in estimation techniques, including modeling and other statistical enhancements used to value our portfolio to reflect more accurately the economic value of our contracts. Reclassification of settled contracts to realized represents the portion of previously unrealized amounts settled during the period and recorded as realized revenues. The net mark to market energy asset also changed due to the following items recorded in accounts other than in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Changes in value of exchange listed futures and options are adjustments to remove unrealized revenue from exchange traded contracts that are included in risk management revenues. The fair value of these contracts is recorded in Accounts receivable rather than Mark to market energy assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because these amounts are settled through our margin account with a third party broker. Net changes in premiums on options reflects the accounting for premiums on options purchased as an increase in the net mark to market energy asset and premiums on options sold as a decrease in the net mark to market energy asset. Contracts acquired represents the initial fair value of acquired derivative contracts recorded in Mark to market energy assets. 45 The settlement terms of our net mark to market energy asset and sources of fair value as of December 31, 2006 are as follows: Settlement Term 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Fair Value (In millions) Prices provided by external sources (1) $ 192.7 $ 205.5 $ 6.1 $ 27.0 $ 5.4 $ 8.7 $ 3.4 $ 448.8 Prices based on models 30.4 (0.9 ) (1.0 ) (13.6 ) (6.9 ) (5.3 ) 2.6 5.3 Total net mark to market energy asset $ 223.1 $ 204.6 $ 5.1 $ 13.4 $ (1.5 ) $ 3.4 $ 6.0 $ 454.1 (1) Includes contracts actively quoted and contracts valued from other external sources. We manage our mark to market risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of our contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, we record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under our contracts in separate components based upon the commodity (e.g., electricity or gas), the product (e.g., electricity for delivery during peak or off peak hours), the delivery location (e.g., by region), the risk profile (e.g., forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g., by month and year). Consistent with our risk management practices, we have presented the information in the table above based upon the ability to obtain reliable prices for components of the risks in our contracts from external sources rather than on a contract by contract basis. Thus, the portion of long term contracts that is valued using external price sources is presented under the caption prices provided by external sources. This is consistent with how we manage our risk, and we believe it provides the best indication of the basis for the valuation of our portfolio. Since we manage our risk on a portfolio basis rather than contract by contract, it is not practicable to determine separately the portion of long term contracts that is included in each valuation category. We describe the commodities, products, and delivery periods included in each valuation category in detail below. The amounts for which fair value is determined using prices provided by external sources represent the portion of forward, swap, and option contracts for which price quotations are available through brokers or over the counter transactions. The term for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region, and product. The fair values included in this category are the following portions of our contracts: forward purchases and sales of electricity during peak and off peak hours for delivery terms primarily through 2010, but up to 2012, depending upon the region, options for the purchase and sale of electricity during peak hours for delivery terms through 2008, depending upon the region, forward purchases and sales of electric capacity for delivery terms primarily through 2007, but up to 2008, depending on the region, forward purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2011, and options for the purchase and sale of natural gas, coal, and oil for delivery terms through 2008. The remainder of the net mark to market energy asset is valued using models. The portion of contracts for which such techniques are used includes standard products for which external prices are not available and customized products that are valued using modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. Modeling techniques include estimating the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual terms and incorporate, where appropriate, option pricing models and statistical and simulation procedures. Inputs to the models include: observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, and expected generation profiles of specific regions. Additionally, we incorporate counterparty specific credit quality and factors for market price and volatility uncertainty and other risks in our valuation. The inputs and factors used to determine fair value reflect managements best estimates. The electricity, fuel, and other energy contracts we hold have varying terms to maturity, ranging from contracts for delivery the next hour to contracts with terms of ten years or more. Because an active, liquid electricity futures market comparable to that for other commodities has not developed, the majority of contracts used in the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation are direct contracts between market participants and are not exchange traded or financially settling contracts that can be readily liquidated in their entirety through an exchange or other market mechanism. Consequently, we and other market participants generally realize the value of these contracts as cash flows become due or payable under the terms of the contracts rather than through selling or liquidating the contracts themselves. Consistent with our risk management practices, the amounts shown in the table above as being valued using prices from external sources include the portion of long term contracts for which we can obtain reliable prices from external sources. The remaining portions of these long term contracts are shown in the table as being valued using models. In order to realize the entire value of a long term contract in a single transaction, we would need to sell or assign the entire contract. If we were to sell or assign any of our long term contracts in their entirety, we may realize an amount different from the value reflected in the table. However, based upon the nature of the wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we generally expect to realize the value of these contracts, as well as any contracts we may enter into in the future to manage our risk, over time as the contracts and related hedges settle in accordance with their terms. In general, we do not expect to realize the value of these contracts and related hedges by selling or assigning the contracts themselves in total. 46 The fair values in the table represent expected future cash flows based on the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and could change significantly as a result of future changes in these factors. Additionally, because the depth and liquidity of the power markets vary substantially between regions and time periods, the prices used to determine fair value could be affected significantly by the volume of transactions executed. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, future market prices and actual quantities will vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and it is possible that such variations could be material. Risk Management Assets and Liabilities We record derivatives that qualify for designation as hedges under SFAS No. 133 in Risk management assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our risk management assets and liabilities consisted of the following: At December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Current Assets $ 261.7 $ 1,244.3 Noncurrent Assets 325.7 626.0 Total Assets 587.4 1,870.3 Current Liabilities 1,340.0 483.5 Noncurrent Liabilities 707.3 1,035.5 Total Liabilities 2,047.3 1,519.0 Net risk management (liability) asset $ (1,459.9 ) $ 351.3 The decrease in our net risk management asset of $1.8 billion since December 31, 2005 was due primarily to decreases in power prices that reduced the fair value of our cash flow hedge positions and the settlement of cash flow hedges during 2006. A decrease in the fair value of our cash flow hedges indicates an increase in value of the accrual positions to which these hedges are related. Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 74.8 $ 58.0 $ 73.6 Our merchant energy business holds up to a 50% voting interest in 24 operating domestic energy projects that consist of electric generation, fuel processing, or fuel handling facilities. Of these 24 projects, 17 are qualifying facilities that receive certain exemptions based on the facilities energy source or the use of a cogeneration process. Earnings from our investments were $13.8 million in 2006, $3.6 million in 2005, and $18.0 million in 2004. Our investment in qualifying facilities and domestic power projects consisted of the following: Book Value at December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Project Type Coal $ 125.7 $ 127.8 Hydroelectric 55.1 55.9 Geothermal 40.5 43.7 Biomass 46.6 48.0 Fuel Processing 33.7 23.8 Solar 7.0 7.0 Total $ 308.6 $ 306.2 We believe the current market conditions for our equity method investments that own geothermal, coal, hydroelectric, and fuel processing projects provide sufficient positive cash flows to recover our investments. We continuously monitor issues that potentially could impact future profitability of these investments, including environmental and legislative initiatives. We discuss certain risks and uncertainties in more detail in our Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. However, should future events cause these investments to become uneconomic, our investments in these projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18. The ability to recover our equity and cost method investments that own biomass and solar projects is partially dependent upon subsidies from the State of California. Under the California Public Utility Act, subsidies currently exist in that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requires load serving entities to identify a separate rate component to be collected from customers to fund the development of renewable resources technologies, including solar, biomass, and wind facilities. In addition, legislation in California requires that each load serving entity increase its total procurement of eligible renewable energy resources by at least one percent per year so that 20% of its retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources by 2017. The legislation also requires the California Energy Commission to award supplemental energy payments to load serving entities to cover above market costs of renewable energy. Given the need for electric power and the desire for renewable resource technologies, we believe California will continue to subsidize the use of renewable energy to make these projects economical to operate. However, should the California legislation fail to adequately support the renewable energy initiatives, our equity method investments in these types of projects could become impaired under the provisions of APB No. 18, and any losses recognized could be material. Operating Expenses Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $203.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to the following: an increase of $139.2 million at our competitive supply operations primarily related to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, 47 an increase of $22.7 million at our upstream gas operations, primarily due to acquisitions made in June 2005, and an increase of approximately $18 million at our generating facilities, which includes higher expenses associated with longer planned outages, offset in part by lower expenses that resulted from our productivity initiatives. Our merchant energy business operating expenses increased $196.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to the following: an increase of $101.8 million at our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation due to an increase in compensation and benefit costs including our expanding gas and coal operations, an increase of $81.5 million from Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, an increase of $26.5 million at our retail operation primarily related to a $10.8 million increase in uncollectible expenses and a $8.7 million increase in aggregator fees, an increase of $17.3 million at our gas fired generating facilities primarily due to increased corporate overhead expenses, and an increase of $13.0 million at Calvert Cliffs primarily due to an increase in corporate overhead expenses, partially offset by fewer employees and a shorter refueling outage in 2005. These increases in expense were partially offset by lower operating expenses of $56.5 million at Nine Mile Point primarily due to lower refueling outage expenses and a lower number of employees and contractors. Workforce Reduction Costs Our merchant energy business recognized expenses associated with our workforce reduction efforts as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Merger Related Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Expense Merchant energy depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses increased $28.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to: $10.2 million related to our South Carolina synthetic fuel facility, $8.8 million related to Ginna, which was acquired in June 2004, and $6.0 million increase related to our 2005 investments in gas producing facilities. Accretion of Asset Retirement Obligations The increase in accretion expense of $8.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 is primarily due to Ginna which was acquired in June 2004 and the impact of normal compounding. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to $5.3 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail competitive supply operation and $3.1 million related to our working interests in gas producing properties. Merchant energy taxes other than income taxes increased $23.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to $19.6 million related to higher gross receipts taxes at our retail electric operation and $4.0 million related to property taxes for Ginna. Regulated Electric Business Our regulated electric business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 2,115.9 $ 2,036.5 $ 1,967.7 Electricity purchased for resale expenses (1,167.8 ) (1,068.9 ) (1,034.0 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (351.3 ) (318.4 ) (304.2 ) Merger related costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) Depreciation and amortization (181.5 ) (185.8 ) (194.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (134.9 ) (135.3 ) (132.8 ) Income from Operations $ 277.1 $ 324.1 $ 302.5 Net Income $ 120.2 $ 149.4 $ 131.1 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.8 ) $ (3.7 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated electric business decreased $29.2 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $19.9 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and incremental costs associated with 2006 storms, and decreased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $11.8 million after tax. Net income from the regulated electric business increased $18.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the following: increased revenues less electricity purchased for resale expenses of $20.7 million after tax, decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million after tax, and increased other income primarily due to gains on the sales of land of $3.6 million after tax. 48 These favorable results were partially offset by the following: increased operations and maintenance expenses of $8.7 million after tax mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs, and merger related transaction costs of $3.7 million after tax. Electric Revenues The changes in electric revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (40.9 ) $ 21.3 Standard offer service 433.7 38.8 Rate stabilization credits (321.9 ) Total change in electric revenues from electric system sales 70.9 60.1 Other 8.5 8.7 Total change in electric revenues $ 79.4 $ 68.8 Distribution Volumes Distribution volumes are the amount of electricity that BGE delivers to customers in its service territory. The percentage changes in our electric system distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (6.4 )% 3.4 % Commercial (0.6 ) 5.1 Industrial (7.5 ) (6.4 ) In 2006, we distributed less electricity to residential customers mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed less electricity to commercial customers mostly due to milder weather, partially offset by an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed more electricity to residential customers compared to 2004 mostly due to warmer summer weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more electricity to commercial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer, an increased number of customers, and warmer summer weather. We distributed less electricity to industrial customers mostly due to decreased usage per customer. Standard Offer Service BGE provides standard offer service for customers that do not select an alternative supplier. We discuss the provisions of Marylands Senate Bill 1 related to residential electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Standard offer service revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to an increase to market prices in the standard offer service rates due to the expiration of the residential rate freeze in July 2006, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. Standard offer service revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and increased standard offer service rates for all customers partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes associated with those commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Rate Stabilization Credits As a result of Senate Bill 1, we are required to defer a portion of the full market rate increase during the eleven month period from July 1, 2006 until May 31, 2007 for recovery in the future. Therefore, the increase in standard offer service revenues is partially offset by rate stabilization credits in order to reduce rates for residential customers from market price to the approved increase of 15% in Senate Bill 1. Electricity Purchased for Resale Expenses Electricity purchased for resale expenses include the cost of electricity purchased for resale to our standard offer service customers. These costs do not include the cost of electricity purchased by delivery service only customers. The following table summarizes our regulated electricity purchased for resale expenses: 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Actual costs $ 1,489.7 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Deferral under rate stabilization plan (321.9 ) Electricity purchased for resale expenses $ 1,167.8 $ 1,068.9 $ 1,034.0 Actual Costs BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $420.8 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher contract prices to purchase electricity resulting from the expiration of contracts that were executed in 2000 as part of the implementation of electric deregulation in Maryland, partially offset by lower standard offer service volumes. BGEs actual costs for electricity purchased for resale increased $34.9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of increased standard offer service volumes to residential customers and higher costs to serve all standard offer service customers, partially offset by lower electricity purchased for resale expenses associated with commercial and industrial customers that elected alternative suppliers beginning July 1, 2004. Deferral under Rate Stabilization Plan We defer the difference between our actual costs of electricity purchased for resale and what we are allowed to bill customers under Senate Bill 1. In 2006, we deferred $321.9 million in electricity purchased for resale expenses. These deferred expenses, plus carrying charges, are included in Regulatory Assets (net) in our, and BGEs, Consolidated Balance Sheets. We discuss the provisions of Senate Bill 1 related to residential 49 electric rates in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Electric Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $32.9 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs and $13.1 million of incremental distribution service restoration expenses associated with 2006 storms. Regulated electric operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Electric Depreciation and Amortization Expense Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $4.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of the absence of $6.9 million amortization expense associated with certain software, partially offset by $3.0 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated electric depreciation and amortization expense decreased $8.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the absence of $12.6 million of accelerated amortization expense associated with certain information technology assets replaced in 2004, partially offset by $4.2 million related to additional property placed in service. Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business is discussed in detail in Item 1. Business Gas Business section. Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 899.5 $ 972.8 $ 757.0 Gas purchased for resale expenses (581.5 ) (687.5 ) (484.3 ) Operations and maintenance expenses (144.8 ) (131.8 ) (123.6 ) Merger related costs (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (46.0 ) (46.6 ) (48.1 ) Taxes other than income taxes (33.8 ) (33.1 ) (32.1 ) Income from Operations $ 92.0 $ 72.4 $ 68.9 Net Income $ 37.0 $ 26.7 $ 22.2 Other Items Included in Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.4 ) $ (1.3 ) $ Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from the regulated gas business increased $10.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to increased revenues less gas purchased for resale expenses of $19.8 million after tax, which was primarily due to the increase in gas base rates that was approved by the Maryland PSC in December 2005. This increase was partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses of $7.9 million after tax. Net income from our regulated gas business was about the same in 2005 compared to 2004. Gas Revenues The changes in gas revenues in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were caused by: 2006 2005 (In millions) Distribution volumes $ (38.0 ) $ 3.9 Base rates 33.4 2.6 Revenue decoupling 28.4 2.5 Gas cost adjustments (112.3 ) 129.1 Total change in gas revenues from gas system sales (88.5 ) 138.1 Off system sales 13.9 77.5 Other 1.3 0.2 Total change in gas revenues $ (73.3 ) $ 215.8 Distribution Volumes The percentage changes in our distribution volumes, by type of customer, in 2006 and 2005 compared to the respective prior year were: 2006 2005 Residential (17.0 )% (1.3 )% Commercial (13.3 ) (9.0 ) Industrial 3.2 33.6 In 2006, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2005 mostly due to milder weather and decreased usage per customer, partially offset by an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. In 2005, we distributed less gas to residential and commercial customers compared to 2004 mostly due to decreased usage per customer partially offset by colder winter weather and an increased number of customers. We distributed more gas to industrial customers mostly due to increased usage per customer. Base Rates In December 2005, the Maryland PSC issued an order granting BGE a $35.6 million annual increase in its gas base rates. In December 2006, the Baltimore City Circuit Court upheld the rate order. However, certain parties have filed an appeal with the Court of Special Appeals. We cannot provide assurance that the Maryland PSCs order will not be reversed in whole or in part or that certain issues will not be remanded to the Maryland PSC for reconsideration. 50 Revenue Decoupling The Maryland PSC allows us to record a monthly adjustment to our gas distribution revenues to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather patterns on our gas distribution volumes. This means our monthly gas distribution revenues are based on weather that is considered normal for the month and, therefore, are not affected by actual weather conditions. Gas Cost Adjustments We charge our gas customers for the natural gas they purchase from us using gas cost adjustment clauses set by the Maryland PSC as described in Note 1. However, under the market based rates mechanism approved by the Maryland PSC, our actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between our actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customers who do not purchase gas from BGE are not subject to the gas cost adjustment clauses because we are not selling gas to them. However, these customers are charged base rates to recover the costs BGE incurs to deliver their gas through our distribution system, and are included in the gas distribution volume revenues. Gas cost adjustment revenues decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold less gas at lower prices. Gas cost adjustment revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Off System Sales Off system gas sales are low margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Off system gas sales, which occur after BGE has satisfied its customers demand, are not subject to gas cost adjustments. The Maryland PSC approved an arrangement for part of the margin from off system sales to benefit customers (through reduced costs) and the remainder to be retained by BGE (which benefits shareholders). Changes in off system sales do not significantly impact earnings. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 because we sold more gas, partially offset by lower prices. Revenues from off system gas sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we sold more gas at higher prices. Gas Purchased For Resale Expenses Gas purchased for resale expenses include the cost of gas purchased for resale to our customers and for off system sales. These costs do not include the cost of gas purchased by delivery service only customers. Gas purchased for resale expenses decreased $106.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 because we purchased less gas at lower prices. Gas purchased for resale expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 because we purchased more gas at higher prices. Gas Operations and Maintenance Expenses Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $13.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to higher labor and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Regulated gas operations and maintenance expenses increased $8.2 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher compensation and benefit costs and the impact of inflation on other costs. Merger Related Transaction Costs We discuss costs related to the merger with FPL Group, which has been terminated, in Note 15. Other Nonregulated Businesses Results 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Revenues $ 231.0 $ 207.0 $ 201.1 Operating expenses (173.1 ) (156.2 ) (180.0 ) Merger related costs (0.5 ) (0.4 ) Depreciation and amortization (37.7 ) (40.2 ) (24.2 ) Taxes other than income taxes (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.4 ) Income (Loss) from Operations $ 17.7 $ 8.2 $ (5.5 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations and before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) $ 11.3 $ 0.4 $ (12.9 ) Income from discontinued operations (after tax) 0.9 20.6 9.4 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (after tax) 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ 12.2 $ 21.2 $ (3.5 ) Other Items Included In Operations (after tax) Merger related costs $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) $ Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation. Above amounts include intercompany transactions eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 3 provides a reconciliation of operating results by segment to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses decreased $9.0 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $19.7 million decrease in income from discontinued operations, partially offset by a $10.7 million increase in net income from our remaining other nonregulated businesses, including an increase in net income from our continued liquidation of our real estate investments. Net income from our other nonregulated businesses increased $24.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to: a $16.1 million after tax gain on sale of Constellation Power International Investments, Ltd., which held our other nonregulated international investments, in October 2005, and a $13.2 million after tax increase in net income from the continued liquidation of our financial investments. 51 These increases were partially offset by $4.9 million lower net income from our other nonregulated international investments due to their sale in October 2005. We discuss the sale of our other nonregulated international investments in more detail in Note 2. In 2001, we decided to sell certain non core assets and accelerate the exit strategies on other assets that we continued to hold and own. While our intent is to dispose of these remaining non core assets, market conditions and other events beyond our control may affect the actual sale of these assets. In addition, a future decline in the fair value of these assets could result in losses that could have a material impact on our financial results. Consolidated Nonoperating Income and Expenses Gain on Initial Public Offering of CEP LLC In November 2006, CEP, a limited liability company formed by Constellation Energy, completed an initial public offering of 5.2 million common units at $21 per unit. As a result of the initial public offering of CEP, we recognized a pre tax gain of $28.7 million, or $17.9 million after recording deferred taxes on the gain. We discuss the initial public offering of CEP in more detail in Note 2. Other Income Other income increased $40.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily because of higher interest and investment income due to a higher cash balance and higher decommissioning trust asset earnings and gains on the sales of land at BGE. Total other income at BGE increased $12.3 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to approximately $7 million of gains on the sales of land. Fixed Charges Total fixed charges increased $18.5 million mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding, including commercial paper borrowings, and higher interest rates in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fixed charges decreased $16.6 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of the benefit of lower interest rates due to interest rate swaps entered into during the third quarter of 2004 and a lower level of debt outstanding. We discuss the interest rate swaps in more detail in Note 13. Total fixed charges for BGE increased $9.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly because of a higher level of debt outstanding. Total fixed charges for BGE decreased $2.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly because of a lower level of debt outstanding. Income Taxes The differences in income taxes result from a combination of the changes in income and the impact of the recognition of tax credits on the effective tax rate. We include an analysis of the changes in the effective tax rate in Note 10. Total income taxes increased $187.1 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a higher level of pre tax income, including the gain on sale of gas fired plants and the gain on initial public offering of CEP, as well as a decrease in synthetic fuel tax credits. We discuss all of these events in the Significant Events section. Total income taxes increased $45.5 million in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the recognition of $35.9 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2004 related to 2003 production. Total income taxes for BGE decreased $17.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 mostly due to lower pre tax income. Total income taxes for BGE increased $17.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 mostly due to higher pre tax income. Defined Benefit Obligations We expect to contribute $125 million to our pension plans in 2007. At December 31, 2006, we recorded a net after tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $93.9 million. This net after tax charge was a result of the following: reducing our additional minimum pension liability, which resulted in an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $75.6 million, and the adoption of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106 and 132(R), which resulted in a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $169.5 million. SFAS No. 158, discussed in Note 1, creates the potential for additional volatility in accumulated other comprehensive income. We discuss our defined benefit obligations in more detail in Note 7. 52 Financial Condition Cash Flows The following table summarizes our 2006 cash flows by business segment, as well as our consolidated cash flows for 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 Segment Cash Flows Consolidated Cash Flows Merchant Regulated Other 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Operating Activities Net income $ 767.0 $ 157.2 $ 12.2 $ 936.4 $ 623.1 $ 539.7 Non cash adjustments to net income 160.3 13.9 21.2 195.4 746.0 905.3 Changes in working capital (858.0 ) 108.4 77.7 (671.9 ) (775.3 ) (319.6 ) Defined benefit obligations* 40.5 3.4 (13.6 ) Other (0.8 ) (30.1 ) 55.8 24.9 30.0 (25.0 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 68.5 249.4 166.9 525.3 627.2 1,086.8 Investing Activities Investments in property, plant and equipment (613.4 ) (332.5 ) (17.0 ) (962.9 ) (760.0 ) (703.6 ) Asset acquisitions and business combinations, net of cash acquired (137.6 ) (137.6 ) (237.2 ) (457.3 ) Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities (394.6 ) (394.6 ) (370.8 ) (424.2 ) Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund securities 385.8 385.8 353.2 402.2 Net proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations 1,630.7 1,630.7 289.4 72.7 Issuances of loans receivable (65.4 ) (65.4 ) (82.8 ) Sale of investments and other assets 23.4 20.5 43.9 14.4 36.1 Contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Other investments 57.0 10.3 (4.8 ) 62.5 (44.0 ) (78.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 883.6 (322.2 ) (1.3 ) 560.1 (1,174.0 ) (1,152.7 ) Cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities $ 952.1 $ (72.8 ) $ 165.6 1,085.4 (546.8 ) (65.9 ) Financing Activities* Net issuance (repayment) of debt 242.2 (339.6 ) (152.8 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 84.4 96.9 293.9 Common stock dividends paid (264.0 ) (228.8 ) (189.7 ) Proceeds from initial public offering of CEP LLC 101.3 Proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions 221.3 1,026.9 117.5 Other 5.5 98.1 (18.0 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 390.7 653.5 50.9 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,476.1 $ 106.7 $ (15.0 ) * Items are not allocated to the business segments because they are managed for the company as a whole. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $525.3 million in 2006 compared to $627.2 million in 2005. This $101.9 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in non cash adjustments to net income in 2006, partially offset by favorable changes in net income and working capital. Non cash adjustments to net income decreased by $550.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the change in deferred fuel costs of $336.6 million related mostly to the deferred recovery of electricity purchased for resale under the BGE rate stabilization plan. We discuss the rate stabilization plan in more detail in the Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and Note 1. In addition, our gains on the sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations increased $177.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss this in more detail in Note 2. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $671.9 million on cash flow from operations in 2006 compared to a negative impact of $775.3 million in 2005. The negative impact of $671.9 million related to working capital was primarily due to the commodity price environment and increased risk management and trading activities that resulted in an increase of approximately $630 million in net cash collateral requirements, primarily for requirements on exchange settled transactions. This increase in cash collateral requirements was accompanied by a decrease in our letters of credit requirements. Cash provided by operating activities was $627.2 million in 2005 compared to $1,086.8 million in 2004. Net income was higher by $83.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004. Non cash adjustments to net income were $159.3 million lower in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease in non cash adjustments 53 to net income was primarily due to the reclassification of $72.6 million of proceeds from derivative power sales contracts as financing activities under SFAS No. 149, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 on Derivative and Hedging Activities and $63.9 million related to the impact of discontinued operations. Changes in working capital had a negative impact of $775.3 million on cash flow from operations in 2005 compared to a negative impact of $319.6 million in 2004. The decrease of $455.7 million was due to a $598 million unfavorable change in working capital primarily related to our accounts receivable, accounts payable, and fuel stocks mostly due to higher commodity prices, increased value of emissions credits, and business growth. This was partially offset by an increase of $142 million of net cash collateral received, which was also due to higher commodity prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $560.1 million in 2006 compared to cash used in investing activities $1,174.0 million in 2005. The $1,734.1 million favorable change in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the increase in proceeds from sale of gas fired plants and discontinued operations of $1,341.3 million and a decrease of $333.9 million in cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. Cash used in investing activities was $1,174.0 million in 2005 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2004. The slight increase in cash used in investing activities was mostly due to $336.2 million of cash paid for contract and portfolio acquisitions and $82.8 million in issuances of loans receivable related primarily to a customer contract restructuring. We discuss contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below, and the customer contract restructuring is discussed in more detail in Note 4. These increases in cash used in 2005 compared to 2004 were partially offset by less cash paid for asset acquisitions and business combinations of $220.1 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations of $216.7 million, primarily due to the sale of Oleander and our other nonregulated international investments in 2005 as discussed in more detail in Note 2. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $390.7 million in 2006 compared to $653.5 million in 2005. The decrease of $262.8 million in cash provided in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from acquired contracts of $805.6 million, a decrease in other financing activities of $92.6 million, and a $35.2 million increase in our dividends paid in 2006 compared to 2005. We discuss the proceeds from acquired contracts below. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in cash related to changes in short term borrowings and long term debt of $581.8 million and $101.3 million in proceeds from the initial public offering of CEP. Cash provided by financing activities was $653.5 million in 2005 compared to $50.9 million in 2004. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was mostly due to an increase in proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions of $909.4 million. We discuss proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail below. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from issuances of common stock, an increase in cash used for repayments of debt, and higher dividend payments in 2005 compared to 2004. Contract and Portfolio Acquisitions During 2006, 2005, and 2004, our merchant energy business acquired several pre existing energy purchase and sale agreements, which generated significant cash flows at the inception of the contracts. These agreements had contract prices that differed from market prices at closing, which resulted in cash payments from the counterparty at the acquisition of the contract. We received net cash of $219.0 million in 2006, $690.7 million in 2005, and $117.5 million in 2004 for various contract and portfolio acquisitions. We reflect the underlying contracts on a gross basis as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets depending on whether they were at above or below market prices at closing; therefore, we have also reflected them on a gross basis in cash flows from investing and financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In millions) Financing activities proceeds from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 221.3 $ 1,026.9 $ 117.5 Investing activities contract and portfolio acquisitions (2.3 ) (336.2 ) Cash flows from contract and portfolio acquisitions $ 219.0 $ 690.7 $ 117.5 We record the proceeds we receive to acquire energy purchase and sale agreements as a financing cash inflow because it constitutes a prepayment for a portion of the market price of energy, which we will buy or sell over the term of the agreements and does not represent a cash inflow from current period operating activities. For those acquired contracts that are derivatives, we record the ongoing cash flows related to the contract with the counterparties as financing cash inflows in accordance with SFAS No. 149. We discuss certain of these contract and portfolio acquisitions in more detail in Note 4 and Note 5. Security Ratings Independent credit rating agencies rate Constellation Energys and BGEs fixed income securities. The ratings indicate the agencies assessment of each companys ability to pay interest, distributions, dividends, and principal on these securities. These ratings affect how much it will cost each company to sell these securities. Generally, the better the rating, the lower the cost of the securities to each company when they sell them. The factors that credit rating agencies consider in establishing Constellation Energys and BGEs credit ratings include, but are not limited to, cash flows, liquidity, business 54 risk profile, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. At the date of this report, our credit ratings were as follows: Standard & Poors Rating Group Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Constellation Energy Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ BGE Commercial Paper A 2 P 2 F 2 Mortgage Bonds A Baa1 A Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Baa2 A Trust Preferred Securities BBB Baa3 BBB+ Preference Stock BBB Ba1 BBB+ Available Sources of Funding We continuously monitor our liquidity requirements and believe that our credit facilities and access to the capital markets provide sufficient liquidity to meet our business requirements. We discuss our available sources of funding in more detail below. Constellation Energy In addition to our cash balance, we have a commercial paper program under which we can issue short term notes to fund our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million of credit under several facilities. These facilities include: a $1.0 billion 364 day credit facility expiring October 2007, a $200.0 million 364 day credit facility expiring December 2007, a $1.5 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in March 2010, a $1.1 billion five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010, and a $750.0 million five year revolving credit facility that expires in November 2010. We enter into these facilities to ensure adequate liquidity to support our operations. Currently, we use the facilities to issue letters of credit primarily for our merchant energy business. Additionally, we can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow the issuance of commercial paper with the exception of the $1.0 billion 364 day facility, which only supports $500.0 million of letters of credit and the $200.0 million 364 day facility, which only supports letters of credit. These revolving credit facilities allow the issuance of letters of credit up to $4,050 million. At December 31, 2006, letters of credit that totaled $1,648 million were issued under all of our facilities, which results in approximately $2.9 billion of unused credit facilities. We expect to fund future acquisitions with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Merchant Energy In November 2006, we completed the initial public offering of CEP and received $101.3 million of net cash proceeds. We discuss the initial public offering in more detail in Note 2. We may obtain additional cash by completing sales of our other natural gas properties. Our ability to complete these sales will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales could be completed. On October 31, 2006, CEP entered into a $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The credit facility will mature on October 31, 2010. We discuss this long term facility in more detail in Note 9. In December 2006, we completed the sale of our gas fired plants and received $1.6 billion in cash. The proceeds from the sale are expected to be applied to reduce debt and invest in our business or repurchase equity. We discuss this sale in more detail in Note 2. BGE BGE currently maintains a $400.0 million five year revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. BGE can borrow directly from the banks or use the facilities to allow commercial paper to be issued. As of December 31, 2006, BGE had no outstanding commercial paper, which results in $400.0 million in unused credit facilities. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral by issuing rate stabilization bonds after January 1, 2007 that securitize the deferred costs. In December 2006, the Maryland PSC issued an order, which allows BGE to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $630 million, subject to adjustment. We currently intend to issue such bonds in 2007. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section. Other Nonregulated Businesses If we can get a reasonable value for our remaining real estate projects and other investments, additional cash may be obtained by selling them. Our ability to sell or liquidate assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. Capital Resources Our actual consolidated capital requirements for the years 2004 through 2006, along with the estimated annual amount for 2007, are shown in the table on the next page. We will continue to have cash requirements for: working capital needs, payments of interest, distributions, and dividends, capital expenditures, and the retirement of debt and redemption of preference stock. Capital requirements for 2007 and 2008 include estimates of spending for existing and anticipated projects. We continuously review and modify those estimates. Actual requirements may vary from the estimates included in the table on the next page because of a number of factors including: regulation, legislation, and competition, BGE load requirements, 55 environmental protection standards, the type and number of projects selected for construction or acquisition, the effect of market conditions on those projects, the cost and availability of capital, the availability of cash from operations, and business decisions to invest in capital projects. Our estimates are also subject to additional factors. Please see the Forward Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors sections. 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In millions) Nonregulated Capital Requirements: Merchant energy (excludes acquisitions) Generation plants $ 182 $ 182 $ 235 $ 235 Nuclear fuel 133 130 137 150 Environmental controls 1 17 330 Portfolio acquisitions/investments 11 231 227 550 Technology/other 129 165 152 200 Total merchant energy capital requirements 455 709 768 1,465 Other nonregulated capital requirements 42 32 21 10 Total nonregulated capital requirements 497 741 789 1,475 Regulated Capital Requirements: Regulated electric 209 241 297 380 Regulated gas 56 50 63 60 Total regulated capital requirements 265 291 360 440 Total capital requirements $ 762 $ 1,032 $ 1,149 $ 1,915 The table above does not include amounts related to pre acquisition capital requirements but does include post acquisition capital requirements. We discuss our acquisitions in more detail in Note 15. As of the date of this report, we have not completed our 2008 capital budgeting process, but expect our 2008 capital requirements to be approximately $1.7 billion. Our environmental controls capital requirements are affected by new rules or regulations that require modifications to our facilities. Based on information currently available to us regarding recently issued regulations, we will install additional air emission control equipment at certain of our coal fired generating facilities in Maryland and at co owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania. We estimate another $800 million of capital spending from 2008 2011 for environmental controls. We discuss environmental matters in more detail in Item 1. Business Environmental Matters. Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business capital requirements consist of its continuing requirements, including expenditures for: improvements to generating plants, nuclear fuel costs, upstream gas investments, portfolio acquisitions and other investments, costs of complying with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maryland, and Pennsylvania environmental regulations and legislation, and enhancements to our information technology infrastructure. Regulated Electric and Gas Regulated electric and gas construction expenditures primarily include new business construction needs and improvements to existing facilities, including projects to improve reliability. Funding for Capital Requirements Merchant Energy Business Funding for our merchant energy business is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt and equity, leases, and other financing activities. The projects that our merchant energy business develops typically require substantial capital investment. Many of the qualifying facilities and independent power projects that we have an interest in are financed primarily with non recourse debt that is repaid from the projects cash flows. This debt is collateralized by interests in the physical assets, major project contracts and agreements, cash accounts and, in some cases, the ownership interest in that project. We expect to fund acquisitions with a mixture of debt and equity with an overall goal of maintaining a strong investment grade credit profile. Regulated Electric and Gas Funding for regulated electric and gas capital expenditures is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, available capacity under credit facilities, the issuance of long term debt, trust preferred securities, or preference stock, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. We discuss BGEs planned issuance of rate stabilization bonds in the Available Sources of Funding section. BGE also participates in a cash pool administered by Constellation Energy as discussed in Note 16. Other Nonregulated Businesses Funding for our other nonregulated businesses is expected from internally generated funds. If internally generated funds are not sufficient to meet funding requirements, we have available sources from commercial paper issuances, issuances of long term debt of Constellation Energy, sales of securities and assets, and or from time to time equity contributions from Constellation Energy. Our ability to sell or liquidate securities and non core assets will depend on market conditions, and we cannot give assurances that these sales or liquidations could be made. We discuss our remaining non core assets and market conditions in the Results of Operations Other Nonregulated Businesses section. Contractual Payment Obligations and Committed Amounts We enter into various agreements that result in contractual payment obligations in connection with our business activities. These obligations primarily relate to our financing 56 arrangements (such as long term debt, preference stock, and operating leases), purchases of capacity and energy to support the growth in our merchant energy business activities, and purchases of fuel and transportation to satisfy the fuel requirements of our power generating facilities. Our total contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006, increased $2.4 billion compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in fuel and transportation obligations and long term debt. Our fuel and transportation obligations increased mostly due to new coal contracts related to our merchant energy business. Our long term debt increased mostly due to the issuance of BGE Notes, offset in part by repayments made during the year. We detail our contractual payment obligations as of December 31, 2006 in the following table: Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total (In millions) Contractual Payment Obligations Long term debt:1 Nonregulated Principal $ 620.5 $ 507.7 $ 58.8 $ 2,203.3 $ 3,390.3 Interest 183.9 333.6 286.9 1,276.1 2,080.5 Total 804.4 841.3 345.7 3,479.4 5,470.8 BGE Principal 121.4 306.1 22.0 1,267.2 1,716.7 Interest 97.3 162.6 155.7 1,408.7 1,824.3 Total 218.7 468.7 177.7 2,675.9 3,541.0 BGE preference stock 190.0 190.0 Operating leases2 186.0 222.3 153.4 391.6 953.3 Purchase obligations:3 Purchased capacity and energy4 367.1 755.5 271.8 526.0 1,920.4 Fuel and transportation 2,866.5 1,867.3 475.9 894.4 6,104.1 Other 103.2 68.0 9.6 26.1 206.9 Other noncurrent liabilities: Pension benefits5 128.8 71.5 144.0 344.3 Postretirement and post employment benefits6 35.2 81.1 91.5 290.7 498.5 Total contractual payment obligations $ 4,709.9 $ 4,375.7 $ 1,669.6 $ 8,474.1 $ 19,229.3 1 Amounts in long term debt reflect the original maturity date. Investors may require us to repay $384.3 million early through put options and remarketing features. Interest on variable rate debt is included based on the December 31, 2006 forward curve for interest rates. 2 Our operating lease commitments include future payment obligations under certain power purchase agreements as discussed further in Note 11. 3 Contracts to purchase goods or services that specify all significant terms. Amounts related to certain purchase obligations are based on future purchase expectations which may differ from actual purchases. 4 Our contractual obligations for purchased capacity and energy are shown on a gross basis for certain transactions, including both the fixed payment portions of tolling contracts and estimated variable payments under unit contingent power purchase agreements. 5 Amounts related to pension benefits reflect our current 5 year forecast for contributions for our qualified pension plans and participant payments for our nonqualified pension plans. Refer to Note 7 for more detail on our pension plans. 6 Amounts related to postretirement and postemployment benefits are for unfunded plans and reflect present value amounts consistent with the determination of the related liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as discussed in Note 7. Termination of Merger with FPL Group, Inc. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement with FPL Group, there are contingencies relating to certain types of transactions entered into prior to September 30, 2007. We discuss these contingencies in Note 15. Liquidity Provisions In many cases, customers of our merchant energy business rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy. A decline below investment grade by Constellation Energy would negatively impact the business prospects of that operation. We regularly review our liquidity needs to ensure that we have adequate facilities available to meet collateral requirements. This includes having liquidity available to meet margin requirements for our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities. We have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require additional collateral upon credit rating decreases in the senior unsecured debt of Constellation Energy. Decreases in Constellation Energys credit ratings would not trigger an early payment on any of our credit facilities. Under counterparty contracts related to our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation, we are obligated to post collateral if Constellation Energys senior unsecured credit ratings declined below established contractual levels. Based on contractual provisions at December 31, 2006, we estimate that if Constellation Energys senior unsecured debt were downgraded we would have the following additional collateral obligations: Credit Ratings Downgraded to Level Below Current Rating Incremental Obligations Cumulative Incremental Obligations (In millions) BBB/Baa2 1 $ 495 $ 495 BBB /Baa3 2 246 741 Below investment grade 3 547 1,288 Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that could exceed the amounts specified above, which could be material. We discuss our credit ratings in the Security Ratings section and our credit facilities in the Available Sources of Funding section. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy and BGE have limited material adverse change clauses that only consider a material change in financial condition and are not directly affected by decreases in credit ratings. If these clauses are invoked, the lending institutions can decline to make new advances or issue new letters of credit, but cannot accelerate the payment of existing amounts outstanding. The long term debt indentures of Constellation Energy and BGE do not contain material adverse change clauses or financial covenants. Certain credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain a provision requiring Constellation Energy to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratios as defined in the credit agreements were no greater than 48%. The credit agreement of BGE contains a provision requiring BGE to maintain a ratio of debt to capitalization equal to or less than 65%. At December 31, 2006, the debt to capitalization ratio for BGE as defined in this credit agreement was 49%. At December 31, 2006, no amount was outstanding under this agreement. 57 Failure by Constellation Energy, or BGE, to comply with these provisions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the debt outstanding under these facilities. The credit facilities of Constellation Energy contain usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by Constellation Energy and certain subsidiaries over a specified threshold. The BGE credit facility also contains usual and customary cross default provisions that apply to defaults on debt by BGE over a specified threshold. The indenture pursuant to which BGE has issued and outstanding mortgage bonds provides that a default under any debt instrument issued under the indenture may cause a default of all debt outstanding under such indenture. Constellation Energy also provides credit support to Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point, and Ginna to ensure these plants have funds to meet expenses and obligations to safely operate and maintain the plants. Pursuant to Senate Bill 1 and an order issued by the Maryland PSC, BGE is permitted to recover deferred costs associated with the residential electric rate deferral after January 1, 2007, including through the issuance of rate stabilization bonds that securitize the deferred costs. We discuss Senate Bill 1 in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Regulatory Matters and Competition section and the rate stabilization bonds in Available Sources of Funding section. We discuss our short term credit facilities in Note 8, long term debt in Note 9, lease requirements in Note 11, and commitments and guarantees in Note 12. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements For financing and other business purposes, we utilize certain off balance sheet arrangements that are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such arrangements do not represent a significant part of our activities or a significant ongoing source of financing. We use these arrangements when they enable us to obtain financing or execute commercial transactions on favorable terms. As of December 31, 2006, we have no material off balance sheet arrangements including: guarantees with third parties that are subject to the initial recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others, retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, derivative instruments indexed to our common stock, and classified as equity, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engage in leasing, hedging or research and development services. At December 31, 2006, Constellation Energy had a total of $11,277.3 million in guarantees outstanding, of which $10,001.8 million related to our competitive supply activities. These amounts do not represent incremental consolidated Constellation Energy obligations; rather, they primarily represent parental guarantees of certain subsidiary obligations to third parties. These guarantees are put into place in order to allow our subsidiaries the flexibility needed to conduct business with counterparties without having to post other forms of collateral. While the stated limit of these guarantees is $10,001.8 million, our calculated fair value of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees was $2,190.6 million at December 31, 2006. If the parent company was required to fund these subsidiary obligations, the total amount based on December 31, 2006 market prices would be $2,190.6 million. For those guarantees related to our mark to market energy or risk management liabilities, the fair value of the obligation is recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe it is unlikely that we would be required to perform or incur any losses associated with guarantees of our subsidiaries obligations. We discuss our other guarantees in Note 12 and our significant variable interests in Note 4. Market Risk We are exposed to various risks, including, but not limited to, energy commodity price and volatility risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and operations risk. Our risk management program is based on established policies and procedures to manage these key business risks with a strong focus on the physical nature of our business. This program is predicated on a strong risk management culture combined with an effective system of internal controls. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance with our risk parameters, limits and trading guidelines, and our Board of Directors has established a value at risk limit. We have a Risk Management Division that is responsible for monitoring the key business risks, enforcing compliance with risk management policies and risk limits, as well as managing credit risk. The Risk Management Division reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who provides regular risk management updates to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. We have a Risk Management Committee (RMC) that is responsible for establishing risk management policies, reviewing procedures for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risks, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Vice Chairman of Constellation Energy & Chairman of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, and consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Retail Competitive Supply, the Co Presidents & Chief Executive Officers of Constellation Energy Commodities Group, the President of Constellation Generation Group and the Chief Risk Officer. In addition, the CRO coordinates with the risk management committees at the major operating subsidiaries that meet regularly to identify, assess, and quantify material risk issues and to develop strategies to manage these risks. 58 Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of financing through our issuance of variable rate and fixed rate debt and certain related interest rate swaps. We may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risks. In December 2006, in order to manage the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on variable rate debt, CEP entered into a pay fixed and receive floating interest rate swap relating to $16.5 million of its outstanding debt. In July 2004, to optimize the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, we entered into interest rate swaps relating to $450.0 million of our long term debt. These fair value hedges effectively convert our current fixed rate debt to a floating rate instrument tied to the three month London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Including the $450.0 million in interest rate swaps, approximately 14% of our long term debt is floating rate. We discuss our use of derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk in more detail in Note 13. The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes: Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Fair value at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt Variable rate debt $ $ $ $ 5.5 $ 36.0 $ 681.7 $ 723.2 $ 723.2 Average interest rate % % % 6.63 % 3.55 % 5.50 % 5.52 % Fixed rate debt $ 741.9 (A) $ 301.1 $ 512.7 $ 16.8 $ 22.5 $ 2,788.8 $ 4,383.8 $ 4,513.8 Average interest rate 6.47 % 6.09 % 6.13 % 6.60 % 6.63 % 6.41 % 6.55 % (A) Amount excludes $384.3 million of long term debt that contains certain put options under which lenders could potentially require us to repay the debt prior to maturity of which $136.9 million is classified as current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and in our Consolidated Statements of Capitalization. Commodity Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. These risks arise from our ownership and operation of power plants, the load serving activities of BGE and our competitive supply operations, and our origination, risk management, and trading activities. We discuss these risks separately for our merchant energy and our regulated businesses below. Merchant Energy Business Our merchant energy business is exposed to various risks in the competitive marketplace that may materially impact its financial results and affect our earnings. These risks include changes in commodity prices, imbalances in supply and demand, and operations risk. Commodity Prices Commodity price risk arises from: the potential for changes in the price of, and transportation costs for, electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities, the volatility of commodity prices, and changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A number of factors associated with the structure and operation of the energy markets significantly influence the level and volatility of prices for energy commodities and related derivative products. We use such commodities and contracts in our merchant energy business, and if we do not properly hedge the associated financial exposure, this commodity price volatility could affect our earnings. These factors include: seasonal, daily, and hourly changes in demand, extreme peak demands due to weather conditions, available supply resources, transportation availability and reliability within and between regions, location of our generating facilities relative to the location of our load serving obligations, procedures used to maintain the integrity of the physical electricity system during extreme conditions, changes in the nature and extent of federal and state regulations, and geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas. These factors can affect energy commodity and derivative prices in different ways and to different degrees. These effects may vary throughout the country as a result of regional differences in: weather conditions, market liquidity, capability and reliability of the physical electricity and gas systems, and the nature and extent of electricity deregulation. Additionally, we have fuel requirements that are subject to future changes in coal, natural gas, and oil prices. Our power generation facilities purchase fuel under contracts or in the spot market. Fuel prices may be volatile, and the price that can be obtained from power sales may not change at the same rate or in the same direction as changes in fuel costs. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Supply and Demand Risk We are exposed to the risk that available sources of supply may differ from the amount of power demanded by our customers 59 under fixed price load serving contracts. During periods of high demand, our power supplies may be insufficient to serve our customers needs and could require us to purchase additional energy at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand, our power supplies may exceed our customers needs and could result in us selling that excess energy at lower prices. Either of those circumstances could have a negative impact on our financial results. We are also exposed to variations in the prices and required volumes of natural gas, oil, and coal we burn at our power plants to generate electricity. During periods of high demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may be insufficient and could require us to procure additional fuel at higher prices. Alternatively, during periods of low demand on our generation assets, our fuel supplies may exceed our needs, and could result in us selling the excess fuels at lower prices. Either of these circumstances will have a negative impact on our financial results. Operations Risk Operations risk is the risk that a generating plant will not be available to produce energy and the risks related to physical delivery of energy to meet our customers needs. If one or more of our generating facilities is not able to produce electricity when required due to operational factors, we may have to forego sales opportunities or fulfill fixed price sales commitments through the operation of other more costly generating facilities or through the purchase of energy in the wholesale market at higher prices. We purchase power from generating facilities we do not own. If one or more of those generating facilities were unable to produce electricity due to operational factors, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the wholesale market at higher prices. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our nuclear plants produce electricity at a relatively low marginal cost. The Nine Mile Point facility sells 90% of its output under unit contingent power purchase agreements (we have no obligation to provide power if the units are not available) to the previous owners. Based on its new capacity, beginning in 2007, we will sell approximately 80% of Ginnas output under a unit contingent power purchase agreement to the former owners. However, if an unplanned outage were to occur at Calvert Cliffs during periods when demand was high, we may have to purchase replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risk Management and Trading As part of our overall portfolio, we manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, emission credits, interest rate and foreign currency risks, weather risk, and the market risk of outages. In order to manage these risks, we may enter into fixed price derivative or non derivative contracts to hedge the variability in future cash flows from forecasted sales and purchases of energy, including: forward contracts, which commit us to purchase or sell energy commodities in the future; futures contracts, which are exchange traded standardized commitments to purchase or sell a commodity or financial instrument, or to make a cash settlement, at a specific price and future date; swap agreements, which require payments to or from counterparties based upon the differential between two prices for a predetermined contractual (notional) quantity; and option contracts, which convey the right to buy or sell a commodity, financial instrument, or index at a predetermined price. The objectives for entering into such hedges include: fixing the price for a portion of anticipated future electricity sales at a level that provides an acceptable return on our electric generation operations, fixing the price of a portion of anticipated fuel purchases for the operation of our power plants, fixing the price for a portion of anticipated energy purchases to supply our load serving customers, and managing our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risks. The portion of forecasted transactions hedged may vary based upon managements assessment of market, weather, operational, and other factors. While some of the contracts we use to manage risk represent commodities or instruments for which prices are available from external sources, other commodities and certain contracts are not actively traded and are valued using other pricing sources and modeling techniques to determine expected future market prices, contract quantities, or both. We use our best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts we hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors, and credit exposure. However, it is likely that future market prices could vary from those used in recording mark to market energy assets and liabilities, and such variations could be material. We measure the sensitivity of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy contracts to potential changes in market prices using value at risk. Value at risk is a statistical model that attempts to predict risk of loss based on historical market price volatility. We calculate value at risk using a historical variance/covariance technique that models option positions using a linear approximation of their value. Additionally, we estimate variances and correlation using historical commodity price changes over the most recent rolling three month period. Our value at risk calculation includes all wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including contracts for energy commodities and derivatives that result in physical settlement and contracts that require cash settlement. The value at risk calculation does not include market risks associated with activities that are subject to accrual accounting, primarily our generating facilities and our competitive supply load serving activities. We manage these risks by monitoring our fuel and energy purchase requirements and our estimated contract sales volumes compared to associated supply arrangements. We also engage in hedging activities to manage these risks. We describe those risks and our hedging activities earlier in this section. 60 The value at risk amounts below represent the potential pre tax loss in the fair value of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over one and ten day holding periods. Total Wholesale Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 13.4 $ 10.0 Average 16.7 6.1 High 28.0 14.5 Low 9.6 2.4 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period Year end $ 10.2 $ 7.6 Average 12.7 4.7 High 21.3 11.0 Low 7.3 1.8 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period Year end $ 32.3 $ 24.1 Average 40.2 14.7 High 67.4 34.9 Low 23.0 5.8 Based on a 99% confidence interval, we would expect a one day change in the fair value of the portfolio greater than or equal to the daily value at risk approximately once in every 100 days. In 2006, we did not experience any instance where the actual daily mark to market change in portfolio value exceeded the predicted value at risk. However, published market studies conclude that exceeding daily value at risk less than seven times in a one year period is considered consistent with a 99% confidence interval. The table above is the value at risk associated with our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operations mark to market energy assets and liabilities, including both trading and non trading activities. We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a higher number of economic hedges of accrual positions and an increase in our trading activities discussed below. We discuss our mark to market results in more detail in the Competitive Supply section. The following table details our value at risk for the trading portion of our wholesale marketing and risk management mark to market energy assets and liabilities over a one day holding period at a 99% confidence level for 2006 and 2005: Wholesale Trading Value at Risk For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 (In millions) Average $ 11.2 $ 5.5 High 17.6 13.3 We experienced higher value at risk for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, for the trading portion of our wholesale trading portfolio due to increased commodity prices, volatility, and trading activity. Our trading positions can be used to manage the commodity price risk of our competitive supply activities and our generation facilities. We also engage in trading activities for profit. These activities are managed through daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines. Due to the inherent limitations of statistical measures such as value at risk and the seasonality of changes in market prices, the value at risk calculation may not reflect the full extent of our commodity price risk exposure. Additionally, actual changes in the value of options may differ from the value at risk calculated using a linear approximation inherent in our calculation method. As a result, actual changes in the fair value of mark to market energy assets and liabilities could differ from the calculated value at risk, and such changes could have a material impact on our financial results. Regulated Electric Business BGEs residential base rates were frozen for the six year period ended June 30, 2006, and its commercial and industrial base rates were frozen for a four year period that ended June 30, 2004. The commodity and transmission components of rates were frozen for different time periods depending on the customer type and service options selected by customers. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation provided BGE 100% of the energy and capacity to meet its residential standard offer service obligations through June 30, 2006. Bidding to supply BGEs standard offer service to all customers will occur from time to time through a competitive bidding process approved by the Maryland PSC. Our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation is supplying a portion of BGEs standard offer service obligation to all customers. We discuss standard offer service and the impact on base rates in more detail in Item 1. Business Electric Business section. BGE may receive performance assurance collateral from suppliers to mitigate suppliers credit risks in certain circumstances. Performance assurance collateral is designed to protect BGEs potential exposure over the term of the supply contracts and will fluctuate to reflect changes in market prices. In addition to the collateral provisions, there are supplier step up provisions, where other suppliers can step in if the early termination of a Full Requirements Service Agreement with a supplier should occur, as well as specific mechanisms for BGE to otherwise replace defaulted supplier contracts. All costs incurred by BGE to replace the supply contract are to be recovered from the defaulting supplier or from customers through rates. Finally, BGEs exposure to uncollectible expense or credit risk from customers for the commodity portion of the bill is covered by the administrative fee included in Provider of Last Resort rates. Our regulated electric business may enter into electric futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated electric business was not material. 61 Regulated Gas Business Our regulated gas business may enter into gas futures, options, and swaps to hedge its price risk under our market based rate incentive mechanism and our off system gas sales program. We discuss this further in Note 13. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to commodity price risk for our regulated gas business was not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk, primarily through our merchant energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparties nonperformance. We evaluate the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation and our retail competitive supply activities separately as discussed below. Wholesale Credit Risk We measure wholesale credit risk as the replacement cost for open energy commodity and derivative transactions (both mark to market and accrual) adjusted for amounts owed to or due from counterparties for settled transactions. The replacement cost of open positions represents unrealized gains, net of any unrealized losses, where we have a legally enforceable right of setoff. We monitor and manage the credit risk of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation through credit policies and procedures which include an established credit approval process, daily monitoring of counterparty credit limits, the use of credit mitigation measures such as margin, collateral, or prepayment arrangements, and the use of master netting agreements. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the credit portfolio of our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had the following public credit ratings: At December 31, 2006 2005 Rating Investment Grade1 61 % 53 % Non Investment Grade 3 7 Not Rated 36 40 1 Includes counterparties with an investment grade rating by at least one of the major credit rating agencies. If split rating exists, the lower rating is used. Our exposure to Not Rated counterparties was $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2005. This decrease was mostly due to a decrease in our credit portfolio related to natural gas and international coal customers that do not have public credit ratings. Although not rated, a majority of these counterparties are considered investment grade equivalent based on our internal credit ratings. We utilize internal credit ratings to evaluate the creditworthiness of our wholesale customers, including those companies that do not have public credit ratings. Based on internal credit ratings, approximately $643.8 million or 59% of the exposure to unrated counterparties was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2006 and approximately $915.7 million or 68% was rated investment grade equivalent at December 31, 2005. The following table provides the breakdown of the credit quality of our wholesale credit portfolio based on our internal credit ratings. At December 31, 2006 2005 Investment Grade Equivalent 82 % 80 % Non Investment Grade 18 20 A portion of our total wholesale credit risk is related to transactions that are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These transactions primarily consist of open positions from our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation that are accounted for using mark to market accounting, as well as amounts owed by wholesale counterparties for transactions that settled but have not yet been paid. The following table highlights the credit quality and exposures related to these activities: Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure (Dollars in millions) Investment grade $ 1,268 $ 130 $ 1,138 $ Split rating 34 5 29 Non investment grade 81 44 37 Internally rated investment grade 511 71 440 Internally rated non investment grade 229 55 174 Total $ 2,123 $ 305 $ 1,818 $ Due to the possibility of extreme volatility in the prices of energy commodities and derivatives, the market value of contractual positions with individual counterparties could exceed established credit limits or collateral provided by those counterparties. If such a counterparty were then to fail to perform its obligations under its contract (for example, fail to deliver the electricity our wholesale marketing, risk management, and trading operation had contracted for), we could incur a loss that could have a material impact on our financial results. Additionally, if a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of mark to market contracts, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. 62 Retail Credit Risk We are exposed to retail credit risk through our competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities which serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Retail credit risk is managed through established credit policies, monitoring customer exposures, and the use of credit mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our retail credit portfolio is well diversified with no significant company or industry concentrations. During 2006, we did not experience a material change in the credit quality of our retail credit portfolio compared to 2005. Retail credit quality is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. If the business environment were to be negatively affected by changes in economic or other market conditions, our retail credit risk may be adversely impacted. Foreign Currency Risk Our merchant energy business is exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This foreign currency risk arises from our activities in countries where we transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, our exposure to foreign currency risk was not material. However, we expect our foreign currency exposure to grow due to our Canadian operations, global power, coal, freight, and natural gas operations, and our UniStar venture. We manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk using a comprehensive foreign currency hedging program. While we cannot predict currency fluctuations, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate risk could be material. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets primarily through our pension plan assets, our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, and trust assets securing certain executive benefits. We are required by the NRC to maintain externally funded trusts for the costs of decommissioning our nuclear power plants. We discuss our nuclear decommissioning trust funds in more detail in Note 1. A hypothetical 10% decrease in equity prices would result in an approximate $130 million reduction in the fair value of our financial investments that are classified as trading or available for sale securities. In 2006, our actual return on pension plan assets was $141.1 million due to advances in the markets in which plan assets are invested. We describe our financial investments in more detail in Note 4, and our pension plans in Note 7. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information required by this item with respect to market risk is set forth in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10 K under the heading Market Risk. 63 
</SECTION>
