<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: CAPITAL CORP OF THE WEST
CIK: 0001004740
SIC: 6022
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. These statements are representative only on the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements made. Some possible events or factors that could occur that may cause differences from expected results include the following: the Companys loan growth is dependent on economic conditions, as well as various discretionary factors, such as decisions to sell, or purchase certain loans or loan portfolios; or decisions to sell or buy participations of loans; the quality and adequacy of management of the borrower; developments in the industry the borrower is involved in; product and geographic concentrations and the mix of the loan portfolio. The rate of charge offs and loan loss provision expense can be affected by local, regional and international economic and market conditions; concentrations of borrowers; industries; products and geographical conditions; the mix of the loan portfolio; and managements judgments regarding the collectibility of loans. Liquidity requirements may change as a result of fluctuations in assets and liabilities and off balance sheet exposures, which will impact the capital and debt financing needs of the Company and the mix of funding sources. Decisions to purchase, hold, or sell securities are also dependent on liquidity requirements and market volatility, as well as on and off balance sheet positions. Factors that may impact interest rate risk include local, regional and international economic conditions, levels, mix, maturities, yields or rates of assets and liabilities and the wholesale and retail funding sources of the Company. The Company is also exposed to the potential of losses arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices which can adversely impact the value of financial products, including securities, loans, and deposits. In addition, the banking industry in general is subject to various monetary and fiscal policies and regulations, which include those determined by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and state regulators, whose policies and regulations affect the Companys results. Other factors that may cause actual results to differ from the forward looking statements include the following: competition with other local and regional banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions and other non bank financial institutions, such as investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, mutual funds and insurance companies, as well as other entities which offer financial services; interest rate, market and monetary fluctuations; inflation; market volatility; general economic conditions; introduction and acceptance of new banking related products, services and enhancements; fee pricing strategies, mergers and acquisitions and their integration into the Company; civil disturbances or terrorist threats or acts, or apprehension about the possible future occurrences or acts of this type; outbreak or escalation of hostilities in which the United States is involved, any declaration of war by the U.S. Congress or any other national or international calamity, crisis or emergency; changes in laws and regulations; recently issued accounting pronouncements; government policies, regulations, and their enforcement (including Bank Secrecy Act related matters, taxing statutes and regulations); restrictions on dividends that our subsidiaries are allowed to pay to us; the ability to satisfy requirements related to the Sarbanes Oxley Act and other regulation on internal control; and managements ability to manage these and other risks. 3 Table of Contents General Development of the Company General Capital Corp of the West (the Company) is a bank holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of California on April 26, 1995. The Company at December 31, 2006 has total assets of $1.96 billion and total shareholders equity of $147.6 million. On November 1, 1995, the Company became registered as a bank holding company and is the holder of all of the capital stock of County Bank (the Bank). The Companys primary asset is the Bank and the Bank is the Companys primary source of income. As of February 1, 2007, the Company had outstanding 10,776,744 shares of Common Stock, no par value, held by approximately 1,700 shareholders. There were no preferred shares outstanding at February 1, 2007. The Company has one wholly owned inactive non bank subsidiary, Capital West Group (CWG). The Bank has three wholly owned subsidiaries, Merced Area Investment & Development, Inc. (MAID) a real estate company, County Asset Advisors (CAA) and County Investment Trust (REIT), which was liquidated in 2006. CAA and REIT are currently inactive, and MAID has limited operations serving as the owner of certain bank properties. All references herein to the Company includes all subsidiaries of the Company, the Bank and the Banks subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. The Company is also the parent of County Statutory Trust I, County Statutory Trust II, and County Statutory Trust III, which are all trust subsidiaries established to facilitate the issuance of trust preferred securities. Information about Commercial Banking & General Business of the Company and its Subsidiaries The Bank was organized on August 1, 1977, as County Bank of Merced, a California state banking corporation. The Bank commenced operations in 1977. In November 1992, the Bank changed its legal name to County Bank. The Banks deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), up to applicable limits. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank. Industry & Market Area The Bank engages in general commercial banking business primarily in Fresno, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, Sacramento, San Francisco, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Santa Clara, Tuolomne counties, and nearby communities. The Bank has twenty six full service branch offices; two of which are located in Merced with the branch located in downtown Merced currently serving as both a branch and as administrative headquarters. The Banks administrative headquarters also provides accommodations for the activities of MAID, the Banks wholly owned real estate subsidiary. For further information on branch operations see Item 2. Properties. Competition The Companys primary market area consists of Fresno, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, Sacramento, San Francisco, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Santa Clara, and Tuolumne counties and nearby communities. The banking business in California generally, and specifically in the Companys primary market area, is highly competitive with respect to both loans and deposits. The banking business is dominated by a relatively small number of major banks which have many offices operating over wide geographic areas. Many of the major commercial banks offer certain services (such as international and securities brokerage services) which are not offered directly by the Company or through its correspondent banks. By virtue of their greater total capitalization, such banks have substantially higher lending limits than the Company and substantial advertising and promotional budgets. Smaller independent financial institutions, savings and loans and credit unions also serve as competition in our service area. In the past, the Banks principal competitors for deposits and loans have been other banks (particularly major banks), savings and loan associations and credit unions. To a lesser extent, competition was also provided by thrift and loans, mortgage brokerage companies and insurance companies. Other institutions, such as brokerage houses, credit card companies, and even retail establishments offer investment vehicles, such as money market funds, which also compete with banks. The direction of federal legislation in recent years seems to favor competition between different types of financial institutions and to foster new entrants into the financial services market, and it is anticipated that this trend will continue. 4 Table of Contents To compete effectively in our service area, the Bank relies upon specialized services, responsive handling of customer needs, local promotional activity, and personal contacts by its officers, directors and staff. For customers whose loan demands exceed the Banks lending limits, the Bank seeks to arrange funding for such loans on a participation basis with its correspondent banks or other independent commercial banks. The Bank also assists customers requiring services not offered by the Bank to obtain such services from its correspondent banks. As reported by the FDIC as of June 30, 2006, the Bank had the following market share of total deposits held by FDIC insured depository institutions in the indicated counties of California: County % market share Merced 43.5 Mariposa 46.0 Fresno 1.6 Stanislaus 4.8 Madera 4.0 Tuolumne 3.7 San Joaquin 0.09 Sacramento 0.08 San Francisco 0.06 See also the discussion under Regulation and Supervision Financial Services Modernization Legislation. Banks Services and Markets Bank The Bank conducts a general commercial banking business including the acceptance of demand (includes interest bearing), savings and time deposits. The Bank also offers commercial, agriculture, real estate, personal, home improvement, home mortgage, automobile, credit card and other installment and term loans. The Bank offers travelers checks, safe deposit boxes, banking by mail, drive up facilities, 24 hour automated teller machines, trust services, and other customary banking services to its customers. The five general areas in which the Bank has directed its lendable assets are (i)Real Estate Mortgage Loans, (ii) Commercial Loans, (iii)Agricultural Loans, (iv)Real Estate Construction Loans, and (v)Consumer Loans. As of December 31, 2006, these five categories accounted for approximately 44%, 26%, 7%, 15% and 8%, respectively, of the Banks loan portfolio. In 1994, the Bank organized a department to originate loans within the underwriting standards of the Small Business Administration ("SBA"). The Bank originates, packages, and subsequently sells these loans in the secondary market and retains servicing rights on these loans. The Banks deposits are attracted primarily from individuals and small and medium sized business related sources. The Bank also attracts some deposits from municipalities and other governmental agencies and entities. In connection with the deposits of municipalities or other governmental agencies, the Bank is generally required to pledge securities to secure such deposits, except when the depositor signs a waiver with respect to the first $100,000 of such deposits, which amount is insured by the FDIC. The principal sources of the Banks revenues are (i) interest and fees on loans, (ii) interest on investment securities (principally U.S. government agency securities, mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, municipal and corporate bonds), and (iii) service charges on deposit accounts and other non interest income. For the year ended December 31, 2006, these sources comprised approximately 75%, 16%, and 9% respectively, of the Banks total interest and non interest income. 5 Table of Contents Most of the Banks business originates from individuals, businesses and professional firms located in its service area. The Bank is not dependent upon a single customer or group of related customers for a material portion of its deposits, nor is a material portion of the Banks loans concentrated within a single industry or group of related industries. The quality of Bank assets and Bank earnings could be adversely affected by a downturn in the local economy, including the agricultural sector. Banks Real Estate Subsidiary (MAID) California state chartered banks previously were allowed, under state law, to engage in real estate development activities either directly or through investment in a wholly owned subsidiary. Pursuant to this authorization, the Bank established MAID, its wholly owned subsidiary, as a California corporation on February 18, 1987. MAID engaged in real estate development activities for approximately seven years. Federal law now precludes banks from engaging in real estate development. At December 31, 2006, MAID held no real estate investments for sale. The last remaining real estate parcel held by MAID was sold during 2000. MAID does not currently intend to purchase or develop any new investment properties for sale or lease. During 2006, MAID owned, operated, and maintained the County Bank Merced downtown branch and County Bank administration building. MAID may only serve as owner for additional branch premise properties in the future. The state regulatory charter for MAID was changed in 2001 to only allow MAID to invest in additional branch premises property. County Investment Trust (REIT) The County Investment Trust was a real estate investment trust that invested in loan participations serviced by the Bank. The REIT provided the Bank with another vehicle in which business might be conducted and equity capital could be raised. While the Bank owns 100% of the common equity of the REIT, approximately 120 officers and employees of the Bank owned a minority interest in the REIT in the aggregate amount of $31,000. During the second quarter of 2006 it was determined the REIT was no longer adding value to the Company and it was liquidated. Employees As of December 31, 2006, the Company employed a total of 421 full time equivalent employees. The Company believes that employee relations are excellent. Seasonal Trends in the Companys Business Although the Company does experience some seasonal fluctuations in deposit growth and funding of its agricultural and construction loan portfolios, in general the Companys business is not seasonal. Operations in Foreign Countries The Company conducts no operations in any foreign country. 6 Table of Contents Other Financial Information: Recently Issued Accounting Standards In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140." SFAS No. 155 simplifies accounting for certain hybrid instruments currently governed by SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," by allowing fair value remeasurement of hybrid instruments that contain an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. SFAS No. 155 also eliminates the guidance in SFAS No.133 Implementation Issue No. D1, "Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets," which provides such beneficial interests are not subject to SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 155 amends SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125," by eliminating the restriction on passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special purpose entity may hold. This statement is effective for financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. Management does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material impact on the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140." SFAS No.156 requires an entity to recognize a servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract in specific situations. Additionally, the servicing asset or servicing liability shall be initially measured at fair value; however, an entity may elect the "amortization method" or "fair value method" for subsequent balance sheet reporting periods. SFAS No.156 is effective as of an entitys first fiscal year beginning after September 15, 2006. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an entitys fiscal year, provided the entity has not yet issued financial statements, including interim financial statements, for any period of that fiscal year. Management does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material impact on the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 requires that management make a determination as to whether each tax position is more likely than not to be sustained under tax authority examination, based on the technical merits of the position. If the more likely than not threshold is met, management must measure the benefit of each position to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements will generally result in: (a) an increase in a liability for income taxes payable or a reduction in an income tax refund; (b) a reduction in a deferred tax asset or an increase in a deferred tax liability; or both. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Management does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material impact on the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, "Employers Fair Value Measurements which defines and establishes a framework for measuring fair value used in FASB pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement. This statement expands disclosures using fair value to measure assets and liabilities in interim and annual periods subsequent to the period of initial recognition. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. Management does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material impact on the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 Table of Contents In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post Retirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R requires the recognition of the funded status of a defined benefit plan, and that gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period that are not recognized as net period benefit expenses be recorded in other comprehensive income. In addition, benefit plan assets and obligations should generally be measured as of the fiscal year end statement of financial position. Disclosure is required in the notes to the financial statements about certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses. SFAS No. 158 is effective, for companies with publicly traded securities, for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of a Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB 108). SAB 108 addresses how the effects of prior year uncorrected errors must be considered in quantifying misstatements in the current year financial statements. The effects of prior year uncorrected errors include the potential accumulation of improper amounts that may result in a material misstatement on the balance sheet or the reversal of prior period errors in the current period that result in a material misstatement of the current period income statement amounts. Adjustments to current or prior period financial statements would be required in the event that after application of various approaches for assessing materiality of a misstatement in current period financial statements and consideration of all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors, a misstatement is determined to be material. SAB 108 will be applicable to all financial statements issued by the Company after November 15, 2006. The implementation of this bulletin did not have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159), which creates an alternative measurement method for certain financial assets and liabilities. SFAS 159 permits fair value to be used for both the initial and subsequent measurements on a contract by contract election, with changes in fair value to be recognized in earnings as those changes occur. This election is referred to as the fair value option. SFAS 159 also requires additional disclosures to compensate for the lack of comparability that will arise from the use of the fair value option. SFAS 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of a companys fiscal year, provided the company has not yet issued financial statements for that fiscal year. Management is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS 159 will have on its financial position and results of operations. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT The banking and financial services industry is heavily regulated. Regulations, statutes and policies affecting the industry are frequently under review by Congress and state legislatures, and by the federal and state agencies charged with supervisory and examination authority over banking institutions. Changes in the banking and financial services industry can be expected to occur in the future. These changes may create new competitors in geographic and product markets which have historically been limited by law to bank institutions, such as the Bank. Changes in the regulation, statutes or policies that impact the Company and the Bank cannot necessarily be predicted and may have a material effect on their business and earnings. The operations of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are affected by the regulatory oversight and the credit and monetary policies of the FRB. An important function of the FRB is to regulate the national supply of bank credit. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement its objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements on bank deposits. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits, the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets, and the level of inflation. The credit and monetary policies of the FRB will continue to have a significant effect on the Bank and on the Company. Set forth below is a summary of significant statutes, regulations and policies that apply to the operation of banking institutions. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such statutes, regulations and policies. 8 Table of Contents BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT The Company is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA). As a bank holding company, Capital Corp of the West is subject to examination by the FRB. Pursuant to the BHCA, Capital Corp of the West is also subject to limitations on the kinds of businesses in which it can engage directly or through subsidiaries. It may, of course, manage or control banks. Generally, however, it is prohibited, with certain exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than five percent of any class of voting shares of an entity engaged in non banking activities, unless the FRB finds such activities to be "so closely related to banking" as to be deemed "a proper incident thereto" within the meaning of the BHCA. As a bank holding company, the Company may not acquire more than five percent of the voting shares of any domestic bank without the prior approval of (or, for well managed companies, prior written notice to) the FRB. The BHCA includes minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies. See the section titled Regulation and Supervision Regulatory Capital Requirements. Regulations and policies of the FRB also require a bank holding company to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks. It is the FRBs policy that a bank holding company should stand ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to a subsidiary bank during periods of financial stress or adversity and that it should maintain the financial flexibility and capital raising capacity needed to obtain additional resources for assisting the subsidiary bank. Under certain conditions, the FRB may conclude that certain actions of a bank holding company, such as the payment of a cash dividend, would constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice. COUNTY BANK County Bank is a California state licensed bank. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System. The Banks deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and thus is subject to the rules and regulations of the FDIC pertaining to deposit insurance, including deposit insurance assessments. The Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB and the California Department of Financial Institutions (the "Department" or DFI). Applicable federal and state regulations address many aspects of the Banks business and activities, including investments, loans, borrowings, transactions with affiliates, branching, reporting and other areas. County Bank may acquire other banks or branches of other banks with the approval of the FRB and the Department. County Bank is subject to examination by both the FRB and the Department. DIVIDENDS The Company may make a distribution to its shareholders if its retained earnings equal at least the amount of the proposed distribution. In the event sufficient retained earnings are not available for the proposed distribution, the Company may nevertheless make a distribution to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, the Companys assets equal at least 125% of its liabilities and certain other conditions are met. Since the 125% ratio translates into a minimum capital ratio of 20%, most bank holding companies, including the Company, based on its current capital ratios, are unable to satisfy this second test. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders is the receipt of dividends and management fees from the Bank. The Banks ability to pay dividends to the Company is limited by applicable state and federal law. A California state licensed bank may not make a cash distribution to its shareholders in excess of the lesser of: (i) the banks retained earnings, or (ii) the banks net income for its last three fiscal years, less the amount of any distributions made by the bank to its shareholders during such period. However, with the approval of the DFI, a California state licensed bank may pay dividends in an amount not to exceed the greater of (i) the banks retained earnings, (ii) its net income for its last fiscal year, or (iii) its net income for the current fiscal year. The FRB, FDIC and the DFI have authority to prohibit a bank from engaging in practices which are considered to be unsafe and unsound. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank and upon other factors, the FRB or the DFI could determine that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank might constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Finally, any dividend that would cause a banks capital to fall below required regulatory capital levels could also be prohibited. 9 Table of Contents REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS The Company and the Bank are both required to maintain a minimum risk based capital ratio of 8% (at least 4% in the form of Tier 1 capital) of risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. "Tier 1" capital consists of common equity, non cumulative perpetual preferred stock and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, and excludes goodwill. "Tier 2" capital consists of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, limited life preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt and (subject to a limit of 1.25% of risk weighted assets) general loan loss reserves. In calculating the relevant ratio, a banks assets and off balance sheet commitments are risk weighted; thus, for example, loans are included at 100% of their book value while assets considered less risky are included at a percentage of their book value (20%, for example, for inter bank obligations, and 0% for vault cash and U.S. Government securities). The Company and the Bank are also subject to leverage capital ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio guidelines require maintenance of a minimum ratio of 3% Tier 1 capital to total assets for the most highly rated organizations. Institutions that are less highly rated, anticipating significant growth or subject to other significant risks will be required to maintain capital levels ranging from 1% to 2% above the 3% minimum. Federal regulation has established five tiers of capital measurement, ranging from "well capitalized" to "critically undercapitalized." Federal bank regulatory authorities are required to take prompt corrective action with respect to inadequately capitalized banks. If a bank does not meet the minimum capital requirements set by its regulators, the regulators are compelled to take certain actions, which may include a prohibition on the payment of dividends to a parent holding company and requiring adoption of an acceptable plan to restore capital to an acceptable level. Failure to comply will result in further sanctions, which may include orders to raise capital, merge with another institution, restrict transactions with affiliates, limit asset growth or reduce asset size, divest certain investments and /or elect new directors. It is the Companys intention to maintain risk based capital ratios for itself and for the Bank at above the minimum for the "well capitalized" level (6% Tier 1 risk based; 10% total risk based) and to maintain the leverage capital ratio for County Bank above the 5% minimum for "well capitalized" banks. At December 31, 2006, the Companys leverage, Tier 1 risk based and total risk based capital ratios were 9.33%, 11.52% and 12.49%, and the Banks leverage, Tier 1 risk based and total risk based capital ratios were 7.98%, 9.86% and 10.83%. No assurance can be given that the Company or the Bank will be able to maintain capital ratios in the "well capitalized" level in the future. PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION The FDIC has authority: (a) to request that an institutions primary regulatory agency take enforcement action against it based upon an examination by the FDIC or the agency, (b) if no action is taken within 60 days and the FDIC determines that the institution is in an unsafe and unsound condition or that failure to take the action will result in continuance of unsafe and unsound practices, to order that action be taken against the institution, and (c) to exercise this enforcement authority under exigent circumstances merely upon notification to the institutions primary regulatory agency. This authority gives the FDIC the same enforcement powers with respect to any institution and its subsidiaries and affiliates as the primary regulatory agency has with respect to those entities. An undercapitalized institution is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its primary federal bank regulatory agency. The plan must specify (a) the steps the institution will take to become adequately capitalized, (b) the capital levels to be attained each year, (c) how the institution will comply with any regulatory sanctions then in effect against the institution and (d) the types and levels of activities in which the institution will engage. The banking agency may not accept a capital restoration plan unless the agency determines, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions, and is likely to succeed in restoring the institutions capital and would not appreciably increase the risk . . . to which the institution is exposed. A requisite element of an acceptable capital restoration plan for an undercapitalized institution is a guaranty by its parent holding company that the institution will comply with the capital restoration plan. Liability with respect to this guaranty is limited to the lesser of (i) 5% of the institutions assets at the time when it becomes undercapitalized or (ii) the amount necessary to bring the institution into capital compliance with applicable capital standards as of the time when the institution fails to comply with the plan. The guaranty liability is limited to companies controlling the undercapitalized institution and does not affect other affiliates. In the event of a bank holding companys bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment over the claims of other creditors, including the holders of the companys long term debt. 10 Table of Contents The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA) provides that the appropriate federal regulatory agency must require an insured depository institution that is significantly undercapitalized, or that is undercapitalized and either fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan within the time period allowed by regulation or fails in any material respect to implement a capital restoration plan accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, to take one or more of the following actions: (a) sell enough shares, including voting shares, to become adequately capitalized; (b) merge with (or be sold to) another institution (or holding company), but only if grounds exist for appointing a conservator or receiver; (c) restrict specified transactions with banking affiliates as if the sister bank exception to the requirements of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act did not exist; (d) otherwise restrict transactions with bank or non bank affiliates; (e) restrict interest rates that the institution pays on deposits to prevailing rates in the institutions region; (f) restrict asset growth or reduce total assets; (g) alter, reduce or terminate activities; (h) hold a new election of directors; (i) dismiss any director or senior executive officer who held office for more than 180 days immediately before the institution became undercapitalized, provided that in requiring dismissal of a director or senior executive officer, the agency must comply with procedural requirements, including the opportunity for an appeal in which the director or officer will have the burden of proving his or her value to the institution; (j) employ qualified senior executive officers; (k) cease accepting deposits from correspondent depository institutions; (l) divest non depository affiliates which pose a danger to the institution; (m) be divested by a parent holding company; and (n) take any other action which the agency determines would better carry out the purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions. In addition to the foregoing sanctions, without the prior approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, a significantly undercapitalized institution may not pay any bonus to any senior executive officer or increase the rate of compensation for a senior executive officer without regulatory approval. If an undercapitalized institution has failed to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan the appropriate federal banking agency is not permitted to approve the payment of a bonus to a senior executive officer. Not later than 90 days after an institution becomes critically undercapitalized, the institutions primary federal bank regulatory agency must appoint a receiver or a conservator, unless the agency, with the concurrence of the FDIC, determines that the purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions would be better served by another course of action. Any alternative determination must be documented by the agency and reassessed on a periodic basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a receiver must be appointed after 270 days unless the FDIC determines that the institution has positive net worth, is in compliance with a capital plan, is profitable or has a sustainable upward trend in earnings, and is reducing its ratio of non performing loans to total loans, and unless the head of the appropriate federal banking agency and the chairperson of the FDIC certify that the institution is viable and not expected to fail. The FDIC is required, by regulation or order, to restrict the activities of critically undercapitalized institutions. The restrictions must include prohibitions on the institutions doing any of the following without prior FDIC approval: entering into any material transactions not in the usual course of business, extending credit for any highly leveraged transaction; engaging in any covered transaction (as defined in Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act) with an affiliate; paying excessive compensation or bonuses; and paying interest on new or renewed liabilities that would increase the institutions average cost of funds to a level significantly exceeding prevailing rates in the market. FEDERAL RESERVE BORROWINGS A Federal Reserve Bank may not make advances to an undercapitalized institution for more than 60 days in any 120 day period without a viability certification by a federal bank regulatory agency or by the Chairman of the FRB after an examination by the FRB. If an institution is deemed critically undercapitalized, an extension of Federal Reserve Bank credit cannot continue for five days without demand for payment unless the Federal Reserve Bank is willing to accept responsibility for any resulting loss to the FDIC. As a practical matter, this provision is likely to mean that Federal Reserve Bank credit will not be extended beyond the limitations in this provision. 11 Table of Contents ACQUISITIONS OF CONTROL Under applicable federal and state laws, it is unlawful for a person to purchase or otherwise acquire beneficial ownership of shares of common or preferred stock of the Bank, without the prior approval of the DFI and a notice of non disapproval from the FDIC, if the acquisition would give the person, or any group of persons acting together (a Group), control of the Bank. The applicable government regulations defined control for these purposes to mean the direct or indirect power (i) to vote 25% or more of the Banks outstanding shares, or (ii) to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the Bank, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; provided that no individual will be deemed to control the Bank solely on accord of being a director, officer or employee of the Bank. Persons who directly or indirectly own or control 10% or more of a Banks outstanding shares are presumed to control the bank. CONSUMER LAWS AND REGULATIONS The Bank must also comply with consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks and the privacy of consumers. While the following list is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and the Fair Housing Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits or making loans. The Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of its ongoing regulatory compliance and customer relations efforts. EXPOSURE TO AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK The federal banking agencies examine banks and bank holding companies with respect to their exposure to and management of different categories of risk. Categories of risk identified by the agencies include legal risk, operational risk, market risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, price risk, foreign exchange risk, transaction risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, and reputation risk. This examination approach causes bank regulators to focus on risk management procedures, rather than simply examining every asset and transaction. This approach supplements rather than replaces existing rating systems based on the evaluation of an institutions capital, assets, management, earnings and liquidity. SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS STANDARDS Federal banking regulators have adopted a Safety and Soundness Rule and Interagency Guidelines Prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness (the Guidelines). The Guidelines create standards for a wide range of operational and managerial matters including (a) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (b) loan documentation; (c) credit underwriting; (d) interest rate exposure; (e) asset growth; (f) compensation and benefits; and (g) asset quality and earnings. The Community Development Act of 1992 amending the Federal Deposit Insurance Act required the agencies to prescribe standards prohibiting as an unsafe and unsound practice the payment of excessive compensation that could result in material financial loss to an institution, and to specify when compensation, fees or benefits become excessive. The Guidelines characterize compensation as excessive if it is unreasonable or disproportionate to the services actually performed by the executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder being compensated. Federal regulators have stated that the Guidelines are meant to be flexible and general enough to allow each institution to develop its own systems for compliance. With the exception of the standards for compensation and benefits, a failure to comply with the Guidelines standards does not necessarily constitute an unsafe and unsound practice or condition. On the other hand, an institution in conformance with the standards may still be found to be engaged in an unsafe and unsound practice or to be in an unsafe and unsound condition. 12 Table of Contents Although meant to be flexible, an institution that falls short of the Guidelines standards may be requested to submit a compliance plan or be subjected to regulatory enforcement actions. Generally, the federal banking agencies will request a compliance plan if an institutions failure to meet one or more of the standards is of sufficient severity to threaten the safe and sound operation of the institution. An institution must file a compliance plan within 30 days of request by its primary federal regulator, which is the FRB in the case of the Bank. The Guidelines provide for prior notice of and an opportunity to respond to the agencys proposed order. An enforcement action may be commenced if, after being notified that it is in violation of a safety and soundness standard, the institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted plan. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides the agencies with a wide range of enforcement powers. An agency may, for example, obtain an enforceable cease and desist order in the United States District Court, or may assess civil money penalties against an institution or its affiliated parties. LEGISLATION AND PROPOSED CHANGES From time to time, legislation is enacted which has the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks, bank holding companies and other financial institutions are frequently made in Congress, in the California legislature and before various bank regulatory agencies. For example, from time to time Congress has considered various proposals to eliminate the federal thrift charter, create a uniform financial institutions charter, conform holding company regulation, and abolish the Office of Thrift Supervision. Typically, the intent of this type of legislation is to strengthen the banking industry, even if it may on occasion prove to be a burden on managements plans. No prediction can be made as to the likelihood of any major changes or the impact that new laws or regulations might have on the Bank. LIMITATIONS ON ACTIVITIES FDICIA prohibits state chartered banks and their subsidiaries from engaging, as principal, in activities not permissible by national banks and their subsidiaries, unless the banks primary federal regulator determines the activity poses no significant risk to the deposit insurance fund (DIF) and the state bank is and continues to be adequately capitalized. Similarly, state bank subsidiaries may not engage, as principal, in activities impermissible by subsidiaries of national banks. This prohibition extends to acquiring or retaining any investment, including those that would otherwise be permissible under California law. The State Bank Parity Act, eliminates certain disparities between California state chartered banks and federally chartered national banks by authorizing the DFI to address such disparities through a streamlined rulemaking process. The DFI has taken action pursuant to the Parity Act to authorize, among other matters, previously impermissible share repurchases by state banks, subject to the prior approval of the DFI. Under regulations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) eligible institutions (those national banks that are well capitalized, have a high overall rating and a satisfactory CRA rating, and are not subject to an enforcement order) may engage in activities related to banking through operating subsidiaries after going through a new expedited application process. In addition, the new regulations include a provision whereby a national bank may apply to the OCC to engage in an activity through a subsidiary in which the bank itself may not engage. In determining whether to permit the subsidiary to engage in the activity, the OCC will evaluate why the bank itself is not permitted to engage in the activity and whether a Congressional purpose will be frustrated if the OCC permits the subsidiary to engage in the activity. The State Bank Parity Act may permit state licensed banks to engage in similar activities, subject to the discretion of the DFI. 13 Table of Contents TIE IN ARRANGEMENTS AND TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATED PERSONS A bank is prohibited from certain tie in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, sale or lease of property or furnishing of services. For example, with certain exceptions, a bank may not condition an extension of credit on a promise by its customer to obtain other services provided by it, its holding company or other subsidiaries (if any), or on a promise by its customer not to obtain other services from a competitor. Directors, officers and principal shareholders of the Company, and the companies with which they are associated, may conduct banking transactions with the Company in the ordinary course of business. Any loans and commitments to loans included in such transactions must be made in accordance with applicable law, on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons of similar creditworthiness, and on terms not involving more than the normal risk of collectibility or presenting other unfavorable features. CROSS INSTITUTION ASSESSMENTS Any insured depository institution owned by the Company can be assessed for losses incurred by the FDIC in connection with assistance provided to, or the failure of, any other depository institution owned by the Company. INSURANCE PREMIUMS AND ASSESSMENTS The Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Conforming Amendments Act of 2005 amended the insurance of deposits by the FDIC and collection of assessments from insured depository institutions for deposit insurance. The new laws provide for the following changes: Merging the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) and the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF) into a new fund, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). This change was made effective March 31, 2006. Increasing the coverage limit for retirement accounts to $250,000 and indexing the coverage limit for retirement accounts to inflation as with the general deposit insurance coverage limit. This change was made effective April 1, 2006. Establishing a range of 1.15 percent to 1.50 percent within which the FDIC Board of Directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (DRR). Allowing the FDIC to manage the pace at which the reserve ratio varies within this range. 1. If the reserve ratio falls below 1.15 percentor is expected to within 6 monthsthe FDIC must adopt a restoration plan that provides that the DIF will return to 1.15 percent generally within 5 years. 2. If the reserve ratio exceeds 1.35 percent, the FDIC must generally dividend to DIF members half of the amount above the amount necessary to maintain the DIF at 1.35 percent, unless the FDIC Board, considering statutory factors, suspends the dividends. 3. If the reserve ratio exceeds 1.5 percent, the FDIC must generally dividend to DIF members all amounts above the amount necessary to maintain the DIF at 1.5 percent. Eliminating the restrictions on premium rates based on the DRR and granting the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all insured institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio. Granting a one time initial assessment credit (of approximately $4.7 billion) to recognize institutions past contributions to the fund. In December 2006 the FDIC issued amended rules intended to make the deposit insurance assessment system react more quickly and more accurately to changes in institutions risk profiles, create a new system for risk based assessments, and set assessment rates for the period beginning January 1, 2007. Among other things the amendments provide that (i) deposit insurance assessment will be collected for one quarter at the end of the next quarter, (ii) an existing institution with $1 billion or more in assets and any institution that becomes insured on or after January 1, 2007 will have its assessment base determined using average daily balances, (iii) the float deduction previously used to determine the assessment base is eliminated, (iv) the nine assessment rate categories that were used previously were consolidated into four new categories, and (v) the designated reserve ratio is being maintained at 1.25 percent, subject to annual review. The amended rules also establish that effective January 1, 2007 the assessment rates will range from 5 to 7 basis points for Risk Category I institutions and will be 10 basis points for Risk Category II institutions, 28 basis points for Risk Category III institutions, and 43 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. The Bank is classified as a Risk Category I institution. 14 Table of Contents AUDIT REQUIREMENTS All insured depository institutions are required to have an annual, full scope on site examination. Depository institutions with assets greater than $500 million are required to have annual audits performed by an independent certified public accounting firm, prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and develop policies that ensure adequate internal controls over financial reporting. Insured depository institutions are also required to have an independent audit committee comprised entirely of outside directors. COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT Under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) regulations, the federal banking agencies determine a banks CRA rating by evaluating its performance on lending, service and investment tests, with the lending test being the most important. The tests are applied in an assessment context that is developed by the agency for the particular institution. The assessment context takes into account demographic data about the community, the communitys characteristics and needs, the institutions capacities and constraints, the institutions product offerings and business strategy, the institutions prior performance, and data on similarly situated lenders. Since the assessment context for each bank is developed by the bank regulatory agencies, a particular bank does not know until it is examined whether its CRA programs and efforts have been sufficient. Institutions, like the Bank, with $250 million or more in assets are required to compile and report data on their lending activities to measure the performance of their loan portfolio. Some of this data is already required under other laws, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. Institutions have the option of being evaluated for CRA purposes in relation to their own pre approved strategic plan. A strategic plan must be submitted to the institutions regulator three months before its effective date and must be published for public comment. During January, 2005, a CRA examination was completed. The Bank was assigned a CRA rating of outstanding as of this examination. BANK SECRECY ACT The Bank Secrecy Act requires financial institutions to keep records and file reports regarding certain financial transactions that involve cash, and to implement counter money laundering programs and compliance procedures. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FILINGS Under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and the SECs rules, the Company must electronically file periodic and current reports as well as proxy statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Company electronically files the following reports with the SEC: Form 10 K (Annual Report), Form 10 Q (Quarterly Report), and Form 8 K (Current Report). The Company may prepare additional filings and amendments to those as required. The SEC maintains an Internet site, http://www.sec.gov, at which all forms filed electronically may be accessed. Our SEC filings are also available free of charge on our website at http://www.ccow.com. POTENTIAL ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS Banks and their institution affiliated parties may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the bank regulatory agencies for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses, or for violations of any law, rule, regulation or provision, any consent order with any agency, any condition imposed in writing by an agency, or any written agreement with the agency. Enforcement actions may include the imposition of a conservator or receiver, cease and desist orders and written agreements, the termination of deposit insurance, the imposition of civil money penalties, and removal and prohibition orders against institution affiliated parties. 15 Table of Contents INTERSTATE BANKING Bank holding companies (including bank holding companies that also are financial holding companies) are required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB before acquiring more than five percent of any class of voting stock of any non affiliated bank. Pursuant to the Riegle Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the Interstate Banking and Branching Act), a bank holding company may acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to the permissibility of such acquisitions under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, after the proposed acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. Subject to certain restrictions, the Interstate Banking and Branching Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines to create interstate banks. The Interstate Banking and Branching Act also permits a bank to open new branches in a state in which it does not already have banking operations if such state enacts a law permitting de novo branching. FINANCIAL SERVICES MODERNIZATION LEGISLATION The Gramm Leach Bliley Act eliminated many of the barriers that separated the insurance, securities and banking industries since the Great Depression. The Gramm Leach Bliley Act is the result of a decade of debate in the Congress regarding a fundamental reformation of the nations financial system. The law is subdivided into seven titles, by functional area. The major provisions of the Gramm Leach Bliley Act are: Financial Holding Companies and Financial Activities. Title I establishes a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities firms, and other financial service providers by revising and expanding the BHC Act framework to permit a holding company system to engage in a full range of financial activities through qualification as a new entity known as a financial holding company. Activities permissible for financial subsidiaries of national banks include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) Lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding money or securities; (b) Insuring, guaranteeing, or indemnifying against loss, harm, damage, illness, disability, or death, or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker for purposes of the foregoing, in any State; (c) Providing financial, investment, or economic advisory services, including advising an investment company; (d) Issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets permissible for a bank to hold directly; and (e) Underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities. Securities Activities. Title II narrows the exemptions from the securities laws previously enjoyed by banks. Insurance Activities. Title III restates the proposition that the states are the functional regulators for all insurance activities, including the insurance activities of federally chartered banks, and bars the states from prohibiting insurance activities by depository institutions. Privacy. Under Title V, federal banking regulators were required to adopt rules that have limited the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. Under the rules, financial institutions must provide: initial notices to customers about their privacy policies, describing the conditions under which they may disclose nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties and affiliates; annual notices of their privacy policies to current customers; and a reasonable method for customers to "opt out" of disclosures to nonaffiliated third parties. Safeguarding Confidential Customer information. Under Title V, federal banking regulators were required to adopt rules requiring financial institutions to implement a program to protect confidential customer information, and the federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines requiring financial institutions to establish an information security program. 16 Table of Contents Community Reinvestment Act Sunshine Requirements. The federal banking agencies have adopted regulations implementing Section 711 of Title VII, the CRA Sunshine Requirements. The regulations require nongovernmental entities or persons and insured depository institutions and affiliates that are parties to written agreements made in connection with the fulfillment of the institutions CRA obligations to make available to the public and the federal banking agencies a copy of each agreement. The Bank is not a party to any agreement that would be the subject of reporting pursuant to the CRA Sunshine Requirements. INTERNATIONAL MONEY LAUNDERING ABATEMENT AND FINANCIAL ANTI TERRORISM ACT OF 2001 The terrorist attacks in September, 2001, impacted the financial services industry and led to federal legislation that attempts to address certain issues involving financial institutions. On October 26, 2001, President Bush signed into law the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the "USA PATRIOT Act"). Part of the USA PATRIOT Act is the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti Terrorism Act of 2001 ("IMLAFATA"). IMLAFATA authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other government agencies, to adopt special measures applicable to banks, bank holding companies, and other financial institutions. These measures may include enhanced recordkeeping and reporting requirements for certain financial transactions that are of primary money laundering concern, due diligence requirements concerning the beneficial ownership of certain types of accounts, and restrictions or prohibitions on certain types of accounts with foreign financial institutions. Among its other provisions, IMLAFATA requires each financial institution to: (i) establish an anti money laundering program; (ii) establish due diligence policies, procedures and controls with respect to its private banking accounts and correspondent banking accounts involving foreign individuals and certain foreign banks; and (iii) avoid establishing, maintaining, administering, or managing correspondent accounts in the United States for, or on behalf of, a foreign bank that does not have a physical presence in any country. In addition, IMLAFATA contains a provision encouraging cooperation among financial institutions, regulatory authorities and law enforcement authorities with respect to individuals, entities and organizations engaged in, or reasonably suspected of engaging in, terrorist acts or money laundering activities. IMLAFATA expands the circumstances under which funds in a bank account may be forfeited and requires covered financial institutions to respond under certain circumstances to requests for information from federal banking agencies within 120 hours. IMLAFATA also amends the Bank Holding Company Act and the Bank Merger Act to require the federal banking agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institutions anti money laundering activities when reviewing an application under these acts. Treasury regulations implementing the due diligence requirements of IMLAFATA include standards to verify customer identity, to encourage cooperation among financial institutions, federal banking agencies, and law enforcement authorities regarding possible money laundering or terrorist activities, to prohibit the anonymous use of "concentration accounts," and to require all covered financial institutions to have in place a Bank Secrecy Act compliance program. SARBANES OXLEY ACT OF 2002 The stated goals of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) are to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures made pursuant to the securities laws. The SOX generally applies to all companies, both U.S. and non U.S., that file or are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The SOX includes very specific additional disclosure requirements and new corporate governance rules, requires the SEC and securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosure, corporate governance and other related rules, and mandates further studies of certain issues by the SEC and the Comptroller General. The SOX represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the public company auditing profession, and to state corporate law, such as the relationship between a board of directors and management and a board of directors and its committees. 17 Table of Contents The SOX addresses, among other matters: audit committees for all reporting companies; certification of financial statements by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer; the forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive based compensation and profits from the sale of an issuers securities by directors and senior officers in the twelve month period following initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; a prohibition on trading by officers and directors trading during certain black out periods under employee benefit plans; disclosure of off balance sheet transactions; a prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers; expedited filing requirements for Form 4s; disclosure of a code of ethics and filing of a Form 8 K for a change or waiver of such code; real time filing of issuers periodic reports; the formation of a public company accounting oversight board; auditor independence; and various increased criminal penalties for violation of securities laws. The SEC has adopted a number of rules designed to implement the provisions of the SOX. REGULATION W Transactions between a bank and its affiliates are quantitatively and qualitatively restricted under the Federal Reserve Act. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) applies Section 23A and 23B to insured nonmember banks in the same manner and to the same extent as if they were members of the Federal Reserve System. The FRB has also issued Regulation W, which codifies prior regulations under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and provides interpretive guidance with respect to affiliate transactions. Regulation W incorporates the exemption from the affiliate transaction rules but expands the exemption to cover the purchase of any type of loan or extension of credit from an affiliate. Affiliates of a bank include, among other entities, the banks holding company and companies that are under common control with the bank. The Company is considered to be an affiliate of the Bank. In general, subject to certain specified exemptions, a bank or its subsidiaries are limited in their ability to engage in covered transactions with affiliates: (i) to an amount equal to 10% of the banks capital and surplus in the case of covered transactions with any one affiliate; and (ii) to an amount equal to 20% of the banks capital and surplus in the case of covered transactions with all affiliates. In addition, a bank and its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions and other specified transactions only on terms and under circumstances that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. Covered transactions include: (i) a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate; (ii) a purchase of, or an investment in, securities issued by an affiliate; (iii) a purchase of assets from an affiliate, with some exceptions; (iv) the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for a loan or extension of credit to any party; and (v) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. Additionally, under Regulation W, a bank and its subsidiaries may not purchase a low quality asset from an affiliate; covered transactions and other specified transactions between a bank or its subsidiaries and an affiliate must be on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices; and with some exceptions, each loan or extension of credit by a bank to an affiliate must be secured by collateral with a market value ranging from 100% to 130%, depending on the type of collateral, of the amount of the loan or extension of credit. Regulation W generally excludes all non bank subsidiaries of the banks from treatment as affiliates, except to the extent that the FRB decides to treat these subsidiaries as affiliates. Concurrent with the adoption of Regulation W, the FRB has proposed a regulation that would further limit the amount of loans that could be purchased by a bank from an affiliate to not more than 100% of the banks capital and surplus. THE MONEY LAUNDERING CONTROL ACT The Money Laundering Control Act of 1986 provides sanctions for the failure to report high levels of cash deposits to non bank financial institutions. Federal banking regulators possess the power to revoke the charter or appoint a conservator for any institution convicted of money laundering. Offending state chartered banks could lose their federal deposit insurance, and bank officers could face lifetime bans from working in financial institutions. The Community Development Act, which includes a number of provisions that amend the Bank Secrecy Act, allows the Secretary of the Treasury to exempt specified currency transactions from reporting requirements and permits the federal bank regulatory agencies to impose civil money penalties on banks for violations of the currency transaction reporting requirements. 18 Table of Contents THE FAIR CREDIT REPORTING ACT The Fair Credit Reporting Act (the FCRA) was adopted to ensure the confidentiality, accuracy, relevancy and proper utilization of consumer credit report information. Under the framework of the FCRA, the United States has developed a highly advanced and efficient credit reporting system. The information contained in that broad system is used by financial institutions, retailers and other creditors of every size in making a wide variety of decisions regarding financial transactions. Employers, and law enforcement agencies have also made wide use of the information collected and maintained in databases made possible by the FCRA. The FCRA affirmatively preempts state law in a number of areas, including the ability of entities affiliated by common ownership to share and exchange information freely, the requirements on credit bureaus to reinvestigate the contents of reports in response to consumer complaints, among others. RECENT LEGISLATION The FDIC finalized its interim final rule, with changes, that amended its deposit insurance regulations to implement applicable revisions to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act made by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Conforming Amendments Act of 2005. The final rule provides for consideration of inflation adjustments to increase the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount of $100,000 on a five year cycle beginning in 2010; increases the deposit insurance limit for certain retirement accounts from $100,000 to $250,000, also subject to inflation adjustments; and provides per participant insurance coverage to employee benefit plan accounts, even if the depository institution at which the deposits are placed is not authorized to accept employee benefit plan deposits. The final rule is effective on October 12, 2006. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System amended Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and the official staff commentary to the regulation, which interprets the requirements of Regulation E to become effective on July 1, 2006. The final rule provides that Regulation E covers payroll card accounts that are established directly or indirectly through an employer, and to which transfers of the consumers salary, wages, or other employee compensation are made on a recurring basis. The final rule also provides financial institutions with an alternative to providing periodic statements for payroll card accounts if they make account information available to consumers by specified means. The federal financial regulatory agencies in September 2006 issued final guidance to address the risks posed by nontraditional residential mortgage products that allow borrowers to defer repayment of principal and sometimes interest, including "interest only" mortgages and "payment option" adjustable rate mortgages. These products allow borrowers to exchange lower payments during an initial period for higher payments later. The lack of principal amortization and the potential for negative amortization and features that compound risks (such as no document loans and simultaneous second mortgages) elevate the concern of the federal banking agencies for nontraditional mortgage products. The guidelines require depository institutions to ensure that loan terms and underwriting standards are consistent with prudent lending practices, including consideration of a borrowers repayment capacity, to recognize that many nontraditional mortgage loans, particularly when they have risk layering features, are untested in a stressed environment. The guidelines also express the need for depository institutions to have strong risk management standards, capital levels commensurate with the risk, an allowance for loan and lease losses that reflects the collectibility of the portfolio, and the need to make sure that consumers have sufficient information to clearly understand loan terms and associated risks prior to making a product or payment choice. 19 Table of Contents The federal financial regulatory agencies in December 2006 issued a new interagency policy statement on the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) along with supplemental frequently asked questions. The policy statement revises and replaces a 1993 policy statement on the ALLL. The agencies issued the revised policy statement in view of todays uncertain economic environment and the presence of concentrations in untested loan products in the loan portfolios of insured depository institutions. The policy statement has also been revised to conform with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and post 1993 supervisory guidance. The 1993 policy statement described the responsibilities of the boards of directors, management, and banking examiners regarding the ALLL; factors to be considered in the estimation of the ALLL; and the objectives and elements of an effective loan review system, including a sound credit grading system. The policy statement reiterates that each institution has a responsibility for developing, maintaining and documenting a comprehensive, systematic, and consistently applied process appropriate to its size and the nature, scope, and risk of its lending activities for determining the amounts of the ALLL and the provision for loan and lease losses and states that each institution should ensure controls are in place to consistently determine the ALLL in accordance with GAAP, the institutions stated policies and procedures, managements best judgment and relevant supervisory guidance. The policy statement also restates that insured depository institutions must maintain an ALLL at a level that is appropriate to cover estimated credit losses on individually evaluated loans determined to be impaired as well as estimated credit losses inherent in the remainder of the loan and lease portfolio, and that estimates of credit losses should reflect consideration of all significant factors that affect the collectibility of the portfolio as of the evaluation date. The policy statement states that prudent, conservative, but not excessive, loan loss allowances that represent managements best estimate from within an acceptable range of estimated losses are appropriate. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in December 2006 issued final guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The agencies observed that the commercial real estate is an area in which some banks are becoming increasingly concentrated, especially with small to medium sized banks that face strong competition in their other business lines. The agencies support banks serving a vital role in their communities by supplying credit for business and real estate development. However, the agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny, but such criteria are not limits on commercial real estate lending. In California, effective January 1, 2007, a new law Financial Code Section 854.1 recognizes the ability of mortgage brokers to obtain the benefit of non interest bearing accounts on trust funds deposited in a commercial bank. The provision applies to real estate brokers who collect payments or provide services in connection with a loan secured by a lien on real property and permits a mortgage broker to earn interest on an interest bearing account at a financial institution. Interest on funds received by a real estate broker who collects payments or provides services for an institutional investor in connection with a loan secured by commercial real property may inure to the broker, if agreed to in writing by the broker and the institutional investor. For purposes of this law, commercial real property means real estate improved with other than a one to four family residence. A new California law makes it easier for California banks to accept deposits from local government agencies. Under the old law, local agency deposits over $100,000 had to be secured by collateral. Pursuant to the enactment of Assembly Bill 2011, banks would be able to acquire surplus public deposits exceeding $100,000 without pledging collateral if they participate in a deposit placement service where excess amounts are placed in certificates of deposit at other institutions within a network. Such a network (of which currently there is only one available in the market) permits the entire amount of a customers deposit to be FDIC insured, and the bank taking the original deposit retains the benefit of the full amount of the deposit for lending or other purposes. AB 2011 clarifies that a local agency may deposit up to 30% of its surplus funds in certificates of deposit at a bank, savings association, savings bank, or credit union that participates in such a deposit sharing network. Since the entire amount of the deposits would be FDIC insured, a bank would not be required to pledge collateral. The bill permits agencies to make these deposits until January 1, 2012. 20 Table of Contents CONCLUSIONS It is impossible to predict with any degree of accuracy the competitive impact the laws and regulations described above will have on commercial banking in general and on the business of the Company in particular. It is anticipated that the banking industry will continue to be a highly regulated industry. Additionally, there appears to be a continued lessening of the historical distinction between the services offered by financial institutions and other businesses offering financial services. Finally, the trend toward nationwide interstate banking is expected to continue. As a result of these factors, it is anticipated banks will experience increased competition for deposits and loans and, possibly, further increases in their cost of doing business. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Readers and prospective investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Companys securities could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. Market and Interest Rate Risk Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow The discussion in this report under Market and Interest Rate Risk Management and Earnings Sensitivity is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Companys income and cash flow depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot control or prevent changes in the level of interest rates. They fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and other liabilities. Risks related to the nature and geographical location of Capital Corp of the Wests business Capital Corp of the West invests in loans that contain inherent credit risks that may cause us to incur losses The Company closely monitors the markets in which it conducts its lending operations and adjusts its strategy to control exposure to loans with higher credit risk. Asset reviews are performed using grading standards and criteria similar to those employed by bank regulatory agencies. We can provide no assurance that the credit quality of our loans will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect Capital Corp of the West. Deterioration of local economic conditions could hurt our profitability. Our operations are primarily located in the Central Valley of California. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. The local economy relies heavily on real estate, agriculture and ranching. A significant downturn in any or all of these industries could result in a decline in the local economy in general, which could in turn negatively impact us. Poor economic conditions could cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Also, if there were significant recessionary conditions in our market area, our financial condition would be negatively impacted. 21 Table of Contents The markets in which Capital Corp of the West operates are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters Most of the properties of Capital Corp of the West are located in California. Also, most of the real and personal properties which currently secure the Companys loans are located in California. California is a state which is prone to earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster, Capital Corp of the West faces the risk that many of its borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in California could have a material adverse effect on Capital Corp of the Wests business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Substantial competition in the California banking market could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions and credit unions, as well as many financial and non financial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructuring may adversely affect us We may seek to acquire or invest in financial and non financial companies, technologies, services or products that complement our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing any such acquisition or investment as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels which we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other bidders. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our subsidiaries, businesses and business lines and may sell, liquidate or otherwise divest a subsidiary, business or business line. Any acquisitions, divestitures or restructuring may result in the issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant write offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and or the incurrence of debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions, divestitures or restructuring could involve numerous additional risks including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals and in the assimilation or separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, higher than expected deposit attrition (run off), divestitures required by regulatory authorities, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. Regulatory Risks Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding Company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends of our Bank. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. Adverse effects of, or changes in, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and not for the benefit of investors. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This trend is likely to continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations currently affecting us and our subsidiaries, may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by any future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, including legislative and regulatory reactions to acts of terrorism, and major U.S. corporate bankruptcies and reports of accounting irregularities at U.S. public companies. 22 Table of Contents Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long standing policy of the FRB, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings by depository institutions, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Systems, Accounting and Internal Control Risks The accuracy of the Companys judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact operating results and financial condition The discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in this report and the information referred to in that discussion is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Companys makes certain estimates and judgments in preparing its financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on the Companys operating results and financial condition. The Companys information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Companys customer relationship management and systems. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately corrected by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage the Companys reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Companys controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Companys internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Companys controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 23 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The Bank Capital Corp of the West/County Bank is a community service bank with operations located mainly in the San Joaquin Valley of Central California. The corporate headquarters and main branch facility are located at 550 West Main Street, Merced, California in a three story building with a two story, attached parking garage and is approximately 29,000 square feet. In addition to this facility, there are three support centers in downtown Merced with an additional square footage of 33,000 square feet. The Bank currently has 25 branch operations located in the Central Valley, 1 branch operation in San Francisco, and 1 branch operation in San Jose. The Central Valley operations include branches located in: Merced (2), Atwater, Los Banos, Hilmar, Sacramento, Sonora, Turlock (2), Modesto (2), Riverbank, Ceres, Newman, Dos Palos, Livingston, Mariposa, Madera, Clovis (2), Fresno (4), and Stockton. The Bank owns ten of these branch facilities and the remaining seventeen facilities are leased. The Management of the Bank believes that the facilities will be adequate to accommodate operations for the foreseeable future. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS As of March 14, 2007, the Company, is not a party to, nor is any of its properties the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings, nor are any such proceedings known to be contemplated by government authorities. The Company is, however, exposed to certain potential claims encountered in the normal course of business. In the opinion of Management, the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations in the foreseeable future. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS The Company did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders in the quarter ended December 31, 2006. 24 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market with a stock quotation symbol of CCOW. The following table indicates the range of high and low prices for the period shown, based upon information provided by the Nasdaq National Market System. There were approximately 1,700 CCOW shareholders as of December 31, 2006. 2006 High Low Dividends 4th Quarter $ 33.19 $ 29.25 $ .08 3rd Quarter $ 34.73 $ 30.36 $ .08 2nd Quarter $ 36.19 $ 29.85 $ .08 1st Quarter $ 36.75 $ 32.36 $ .05 2005 High Low Dividends 4th Quarter $ 35.52 $ 29.60 $ 0.05 3rd Quarter $ 34.98 $ 27.09 $ 0.05 2nd Quarter $ 28.14 $ 24.00 $ 0.05 1st Quarter $ 26.64 $ 23.62 $ 0.05 The Company began paying dividends in the first quarter of 2004. Any future dividends will depend on the Companys performance, the judgment of the Board as to the appropriateness of declaring a dividend, and compliance with various legal and regulatory provisions which restrict the amount of dividends which the Company may declare. (See Capital Resources located in Item 7 below). Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans. The following table sets forth securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans as for December 31, 2006. Equity Compensation Plan Information (a) (b) (c) Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warants and Rights Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column a) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 679,985 $ 20.73 223,490 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders Total 679,985 $ 20.73 223,490 For additional information related to the above plans see Note 12 of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements in 
</SECTION>
