<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: FUTURES STRATEGIC TRUST
CIK: 0001005006
SIC: 6221
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070330
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies Preparation of the financial statements and related disclosures in compliance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the application of appropriate accounting rules and guidance, as well as the use of estimates. The Trusts application of these policies involves judgments and actual results may differ from the estimates used. The Managing Owner has evaluated the nature and types of estimates that it makes in preparing the Trusts financial statements and related disclosures and has determined that the valuation of its investments that are not traded on a United States or Internationally recognized futures exchange involves a critical accounting policy. The market values of futures (exchange traded) contracts is verified by the Administrator who obtains valuation data from third party data providers such as Bloomberg and Reuters and compares those prices with the Trusts clearing broker. The market value of currency swap and forward (non exchange traded) contracts is extrapolated on a forward basis from the spot prices quoted as of 3 PM on the last business day of the reporting period. All values assigned by the Administrator and confirmed by the Managing Owner are final and conclusive as to all unitholders. As such, if actual results vary from estimates used, they are anticipated to not have a material impact on the financial statements and related disclosures. The Trust records all investments at fair value in its financial statements, with changes in fair value reported as a component of Trading Profits (Losses) in the Statements of Income (Loss). Generally, fair values are based on quoted market prices; however, in certain circumstances, significant judgments and estimates are involved in determining fair value in the absence of an active market closing price. 9 The SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 108 (SAB 108), Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, which provides guidance on quantifying and evaluating the materiality of unrecorded misstatements. It is effective for the first annual period ending after November 15, 2006. Preferred as Managing Owner of the Registrant has evaluated the impact, if any, the implementation of SAB 108 may have on its financial statements. In Preferreds opinion, no material unrecorded misstatements are in existence as of December 31, 2006 that would require a cumulative effect adjustment to the financial statements. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 requires that the Trust recognize in its financial statement, the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. Preferred as Managing Owner of the Trust has evaluated the impact of adopting FIN 48 on the Trusts financial statements. In Preferreds opinion as of December 31, 2006, FIN 48 has no material impact on the Trust, as the Trusts tax position is based on established tax precedence for the tax treatment of investment partnerships as flow through tax entities. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Trust is currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 157 on its financial statements. At this time, the impact to the Trusts financial statements has not been determined. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Trust commenced operations on May 1, 1996 with gross proceeds of $12,686,200 allocated to commodities trading. Additional Interests were offered monthly at the then current net asset value per Interest until the continuous offering period expired on January 31, 1998. Additional contributions made during the continuous offering from the sales of Interests totaled $51,242,700, including $375,000 of contributions from the Managing Owner. The Trust Agreement provides that a unitholder may redeem its Interests as of the last day of any month at the then current net asset value per Interest. Redemptions of Limited Interests recorded for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $780,804, $1,022,214 and $927,071, respectively. Redemptions of General Interests by the Managing Owner for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $7,920, $10,396 and $8,452, respectively. Redemptions of Limited Interests and General Interests from the commencement of operations, May 1, 1996, to December 31, 2006 totaled $57,779,030, and $471,129, respectively. Future redemptions will impact the amount of funds available for investment in commodity contracts in subsequent periods. At December 31, 2006, 100% of the Trusts net assets were allocated to commodities trading primarily through its investment in the Company. A significant portion of the net assets of the Trust was held in cash which was used as margin for the Trusts trading in commodities, primarily through its investment in the Company. Inasmuch as the sole business of the Trust is to trade in commodities, the Trust holds liquid assets used as margin. Through August 31, 2005, the clearing broker credited the Trust monthly with 80% of the interest it earned on the equity balances in these accounts and paid the remaining 20% to the Managing Owner. Effective September 1, 2005, the clearing broker credits the Trust 100% of the earned interest on such equity accounts. The commodities contracts may be subject to periods of illiquidity because of market conditions, regulatory considerations and other reasons. For example, commodity exchanges limit fluctuations in commodity futures contract prices during a single day by regulations referred to as daily limits. During a single day, no trades may be executed at prices beyond the daily limit. Once the price of a futures contract for a particular commodity has increased or decreased by an amount equal to the daily limit, positions in the commodity can neither be taken nor liquidated unless traders are willing to effect trades at or within the limit. Commodity futures prices have occasionally moved the daily limit for several consecutive days with little or no trading. Such market conditions could prevent the Trust from promptly liquidating its commodity futures positions. Since the Trusts business is to trade futures and forward contracts, its capital is at risk due to changes in the value of these contracts (market risk) or the inability of counterparties to perform under the terms of the contracts (credit risk). The Trusts exposure to market risk is influenced by a number of factors, including the volatility of interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, the liquidity of the markets in which the contracts are traded and the relationships among the contracts held. The inherent uncertainty of the Trusts speculative trading, as well as the development of drastic market occurrences, could result in monthly losses considerably beyond the Trusts experience to date and could ultimately lead to a loss of all or substantially all of investors capital. The Managing Owner attempts to minimize these risks by requiring the Trusts trading managers to abide by various trading limitations and policies, which include limiting margin amounts, trading only in liquid markets and permitting the use of stop loss provisions. See Note 7 of the financial statements for a further discussion of the credit and market risks associated with the Trusts futures and forward contracts. The Trust does not have, nor does it expect to have, any capital assets. 10 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2006, the Trust had not utilized special purpose entries to facilitate off balance sheet financing arrangements and has no loan guarantee arrangements or off balance sheet arrangements of any kind other than agreements entered into in the normal course of business which may include indemnification provisions related to certain risk service providers undertake in performing services which are in the best interests of the Trust. While the Trusts exposure under such indemnification provisions cannot be estimated, these general business indemnifications are not expected to have a material impact on the Trusts financial position. The Trusts contractual obligations are with the Managing Owner, the Trading Advisors and its commodity broker. Payments made under the Trusts agreement with the Trading Advisors are at a fixed rate, calculated as a percentage of the New High Net Trading Profits. Management fee payments made to the Trading Advisors and fees paid to the Managing Owner are calculated as a fixed percentage of the Trusts net asset value. As such, the Managing Owner cannot anticipate the amount of payments that will be required under these agreements for future periods as net asset values are not known until a future date. Commission payments to the commodity broker are based on a cost per executed trade and, as such, the Managing Owner cannot anticipate the amount of payments that will be required under the brokerage agreement for future periods as the level of executed trades are not known until a future date. These agreements are effective for one year terms, renewable automatically for additional one year terms unless terminated. Additionally, these agreements may be terminated by either party for various reasons. For a further discussion on these payments, see Notes 1 and 3 of the Registrants 2006 Annual Report. Results of Operations The net asset value (NAV) per Interest as of December 31, 2006 was $100.24, an increase of .89% from the December 31, 2005 NAV per Interest of $99.36, which was a decrease of 8.01% from the December 31, 2004 NAV per Interest of $108.01, which was an increase of 5.15% from the December 31, 2003 NAV per Interest of $102.72. The CISDM CPO Asset Weighted Index (formerly known as the Zurich Fund/Pool Qualified Universe Index) returned 8.29%, 5.97% and 3.22% for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The CISDM CPO Asset Weighted Index is the dollar weighted, total return of all commodity pools tracked by Managed Account Reports, LLC. Past performance is not necessary indicative of future results. The Trusts trading gains/(losses) before commissions were approximately $344,000, $(142,000) and $1,036,000 during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Due to the nature of the Trusts trading activities, a period to period comparison of its trading results is not meaningful. However, a detailed discussion of the Trusts 2006 trading results is presented below. General Economy The U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) ceased raising rates in the fourth quarter. The perception remains that although the economy is slowing, there is no danger of a recession and that a soft landing is the most likely scenario. Range trading may be the dominant pattern for the next few months as prices react to the economic data. The yield on the benchmark U.S. 10 Year note finished November at an 11 month low. A weaker U.S. dollar failed to dampen enthusiasm for U.S. Treasuries. The latest data available shows capital flows to the U.S. rose in October. On the employment front, job growth accelerated in December as non farm payrolls rose while the unemployment rate held steady at 4.5%. This is down from 4.9% at the start of 2006. Of some concern was a 0.5% jump in average hourly earnings, taking them up 4.2% over the past 12 months. Overall, the employment picture persists as healthy but the construction, manufacturing and retail sectors all lost jobs in December. Regarding U.S. inflation, the November Consumer Price Index (CPI) was unchanged and the Core CPI, which factors out the more volatile food and energy prices, was also flat. This is the lowest reading for the core rate since November 2005. There were clearly no inflation worries in this data. The Producer Price Index (PPI) was not as controlled, climbing 2.0%, the most since 1974. The surge was caused by a jump in energy, car and truck prices. Housing has been a major economic concern in 2006. November Housing Starts rose following a big drop in October. November Housing Permits, however, fell slightly. Over the past 11 months, Housing Starts were 12.5% below 2005 levels while Housing Permits were off 14.1%. Homebuilders confidence, as indicated by the NAHB/Wells Fargo Index fell in December. The overall consumer confidence picture remained mixed with the high end and electronics sectors doing well. November Retail Sales rose 1.0%. The unusually warm weather hurt clothing sales in department stores. Third quarter Gross Domestic Product, a measure of economic growth, was revised downwards to the lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2005. Home building remains the main drag on growth. While the Fed was on hold with respect to interest rate policy, the European Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of England (BOE) and the Peoples Bank of China (PBC) all raised interest rates. British housing prices and CPI growth continue to be high. Germany continues to exhibit growth, and leads the increasingly strong Eurozone. The Bank of Japan (BOJ) remained cautious, with no additional rate hikes following the July increase to 0.25%. The economy appears mixed, with consumer spending still less than the economy requires. The Bank of Canada, Reserve Bank of Australia and New Zealand central bank all remained on hold in December. 11 Currencies The euro strengthened versus the U.S. dollar in 2006, reversing the pattern from 2005. The euro also strengthened against the Japanese yen, achieving record levels in December. Germany, the engine of Eurozone growth, has been the strongest European economy this year. Interest rate differential factors supported the euro through much of the fourth quarter of 2006. Of great significance, central banks around the globe have initiated a policy of diversification out of the U.S. dollar and into the euro, the British pound, and to a lesser extent, the Japanese yen. The British pound ended the year slightly off its high, after rising approximately 14% versus the U.S. dollar. British housing prices have been surging and the CPI came in above the BOEs target. The Japanese yen fell against the U.S. dollar, euro and British pound during the fourth quarter of 2006. Japan exited its deflationary era in 2006, although the fourth quarter saw less than robust growth on the consumer side. Other Asian currencies were better performers, with the Korean won having a particularly solid December and fourth quarter. The Peoples Bank of China continues to tighten the reins on the economy. Most recently, the PBC increased the reserve requirement ratio for banks and raised the base interest rate 50 points to 6.72%. The yuan has shown an accumulative appreciation of about 3.7% since the July 2005 revaluation. Energies Crude oil was strong during the first half of the year and weakened during the second half, with the exception of a brief respite during November. Crude ended December around $60 per barrel, which contrasts to its mid July peak of nearly $78 per barrel. Record warm weather in key consuming regions in the U.S. put pressure on the market during the fourth quarter, as did a generally benign geopolitical scene and poor member compliance with OPECs announced production cuts. The unusually warm weather kept heating oil under pressure during December. Heating oil will be dependent on a general recovery in commodity prices and a sudden weather shift in coming weeks. Department of Energy gasoline inventories are 0.5% below last season. The driving season was extended by the warm weather conditions. Natural gas fell during the fourth quarter with the weather weighing heavily on investor sentiment. Inventories are still burdensome and demand is slowing rather than rising during the normally strong seasonal demand time frame. What remains to be seen is whether the markets have discounted the majority of these bearish fundamentals. Grains While Decembers performance was mixed, corn trended upwards for the fourth quarter as a whole. The last week of the month, quarter, and year saw the posting of a multi year high, with the final price for 2006 settling at the highest weekly close on the charts since the drought driven summer rally in July of 1996. The main drivers behind the re awakening of corn prices were threefold: 1) an increase in overseas demand due to improving global economic conditions; 2) the expansion of the production of ethanol; and 3) the ongoing increase in hedge fund and money managers investing in alternative non correlated asset classes. For the quarter as a whole, despite a large trading range, the wheat market put in somewhat disappointing, albeit upward trending performance. The uncertainty caused by ongoing drought conditions in Australia, the relatively high price for wheat and tight global stocks had an effect on supply and demand. The trend for soybean prices was higher for the fourth quarter of 2006. Export demand for soybeans, soybean oil and soybean meal all appear to be increasing. As corn production is increasingly diverted to the production of ethanol, substitute feedstuffs, with soybeans as the closest surrogate, may also feel the upward pull of prices. As the global supply of foreign cotton sold out late in the year, prices began to move higher from mid November through the end of the year. The lethargy that characterized most of 2006 was a product of a massive carryover of last years crop, along with last summers unfortunate elimination of a marketing program which left U.S. cotton uncompetitively priced. Indices U.S. equities recorded their best gains in three years during the fourth quarter of 2006. The weakness in real estate that may have caused a shift into equities, large levels of global liquidity, a drop in oil prices, a quiet geopolitical atmosphere, solid earnings and a brisk mergers and acquisitions calendar all added to the positive performance. A shift out of commodities also aided the tone of global equities. Blue chips, financials, oil and big caps did well, and at the end of the quarter technology names took a leading role. It was also a very good December, fourth quarter and year for the European equity markets. Markets in Germany, the U.K. and France all ended higher for the fourth quarter. Heavy merger and acquisition activity was a major feature in Europe, along with a solid run of earnings and significant fund inflows. The strong U.S. market was also a psychological plus. The prospect of further rate hikes from the ECB, and to a lesser extent the BOE, failed to diminish enthusiasm. Asian/Pacific Rim equities also recorded solid 2006 gains, despite volatile trading. Record highs were achieved in Singapore, Australia and New Zealand during the final session of the year as well as for Chinas Shanghai Composite. A growing Japanese economy served to buoy enthusiasm and a modest 0.25% base interest rate was supportive. Thailands SET Index had a very volatile month after the central bank attempted to impose controls on capital for foreign investors in the stock market, but that was quickly reversed when the SET tumbled 15%, and prices subsequently recovered. However, Thailand has seen continuing political unrest. 12 Interest Rates As expected, the Fed remained on hold at its December 12 meeting. The minutes of the most recent Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting were virtually the same as the November meeting, indicating that the FOMC unanimously agreed that inflation persists as the primary concern to the economy. However, at the same time they stated the economy might have been a bit softer than previously thought. In the international arena, the ECB increased rates 25 basis points in December and the BOE raised rates 25 basis points in November. The BOJ made just one move to 0.25% in 2006. Japanese consumer data has been a bit sluggish; something the BOJ will keep in focus. The Peoples Bank of China is currently engaged in a tightening process, and is actively draining liquidity by increasing reserve requirements. Metals A weak U.S. dollar helped support gold for most of the quarter but during late December the dollar showed signs of a consolidation rally and gold fell. Plunging energy prices had a negative impact on gold prices as well. Silver traded at its best levels in more than six months during the quarter, but ended the year off its highs. For the year, silver significantly outperformed gold. Speculative participation was heavy throughout the quarter, setting the stage for high volatility. A steady increase in inventories weighed on copper prices in the fourth quarter. A lessening of labor concerns, particularly in Chile and Canada, and the fact that Chinas buying pace slowed in 2006 added to the negative tone. Zinc supplies remained tight and strong demand continued. Aluminum prices held up well in the fourth quarter in the face of a general commodity weakness. Nickel was one of the strongest performers in the metals group due to tight supply and a strong pattern of stainless steel demand. Softs Forecasts for a significant global supply surplus of sugar weighed on sentiment, causing prices to decline 29% on the year. This made sugar the weakest agricultural commodity in the Dow Jones/AIG Index. Coffee prices remained relatively flat for 2006 and overall global coffee demand was solid. Scaled back cocoa crop prospects for the Ivory Coast, the worlds largest producer, added to the commoditys recent bullish tone. The political situation in the Ivory Coast continues fairly quiet but civil unrest remains a potential factor. The cattle market traded sideways for most of the fourth quarter until severe weather conditions reduced cattle supply and caused prices to rise in the second half of December. Hog supply was ample during the quarter as the US entered a seasonally slow demand period. On the bright side, the most recent USDA estimate is that US pork exports will rise in 2007 to follow the 2006 increase Currencies: ( ) The sector was down for the year. Long positions in the Canadian dollar and Japanese yen, short positions in the Euro, and long and short positions in the Swiss franc were the largest contributors to the losses for the year. Energies: ( ) The energy sector was down for the year, with a majority of the losses coming from long positions in crude oil and natural gas. Grains: ( ) The grain sector was down for the year, with a majority of the losses coming from long and short positions in wheat and corn. Indices: (+) The sector was positive in 2006 primarily due to long positions in the DJ Stoxx 50, and long and short positions in the CAC 40 and IBEX indices. Interest Rates: (+) The sector was up for the year, with a majority of the gains coming from short positions in the German Bund, London Gilt and U.S. Treasury Note. Metals: (+) Long positions in gold and zinc contributed to a gain in the sector for 2006. Softs: ( ) The sector was down for the year, with losses from long and short positions in coffee and cocoa. Interest income is earned on the average daily equity maintained with the clearing broker at prevailing rates, therefore, varies weekly according to interest rates, trading performance, and redemptions. Interest income increased by approximately $115,000 during 2006 as compared to 2005, increased by approximately $86,000 during 2005 as compared to 2004, and decreased by approximately $2,000 during 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase in interest income during the years ending 2006 and 2005 was primarily due to increased short term interest rates, which more than offset the reduced average net asset levels, which were primarily the result of redemptions during these time periods. The small decrease in interest income in 2004 as compared to 2003 was due primarily slightly higher average net asset levels in 2003, which offset higher short term interest rates in 2004. Commissions are calculated on the Registrants net asset value at the end of beginning of each month and, therefore, vary according to trading performance, and redemptions. Commissions and other transaction fees decreased by approximately $66,000 in 2006 as compared to 2005, decreased by approximately $56,000 during 2005 as compared to 2004, and decreased by approximately $44,000 during 2004 as compared to 2003. The decrease in commissions for the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004 was due to reduced average asset levels discussed above. The Trading Advisor makes all trading decisions for the Registrant. Management fees are calculated on the Registrants net asset value at the end of each month and, therefore are affected by trading performance, and redemptions. Management fees increased by approximately $3,000 during 2006 as compared to 2005, decreased by approximately $13,000 during 2005 13 as compared to 2004, and decreased by approximately $6,000 in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase in Management Fees for 2006 as compared to 2005 was due to the Registrants terminating the managed accounts and investing in the Company, which incurs a higher Management Fee rate than the managed accounts. The decrease in Management fees during the years ending 2005 and 2004 was due to reduced average asset levels discussed above Incentive fees are based on the New High Net Trading Profits generated by the Trading Advisor as defined in the Advisory Agreements amongst the Registrant, the Managing Owner and the Trading Advisor, including the Registrants investment in the Company. Incentive fees incurred during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $23,000, $31,000 and $131,000, respectively. Inflation Inflation has had no material impact on operations or on the financial condition of the Trust from inception through December 31, 2006. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information regarding quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is not required pursuant to Item 305(e) of Regulation S K. 
</SECTION>
