<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: ML JWH STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND LP
CIK: 0001005177
SIC: 6221
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070329
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations General JWHs programs do not predict price movements. No fundamental economic supply demand analysis is used and no macroeconomic assessments of the relative strengths of different national economies or economic sectors are used. Instead, the programs apply proprietary computer models to analyze past market data, and from this data alone attempt to determine whether market prices are trending. Technical traders such as JWH base their strategies on the theory that market prices reflect the collective judgment of numerous different traders and are, accordingly, the best and most efficient indication of market movements. However, there are frequent periods during which fundamental factors external to the market dominate prices. If JWHs models identify a trend, they signal positions which follow it. When these models identify the trend as having ended or reversed, these positions are either closed out or reversed. Due to their trend following character, the JWH programs do not predict either the commencement or the end of a price movement. Rather, their objective is to identify a trend early enough to profit from it and to detect its end or reversal in time to close out the Partnerships positions while retaining most of the profits made from following the trend. In analyzing the performance of JWHs trend following programs, economic conditions, political events, weather factors, etc., are not directly relevant because only market data has any input into JWHs trading results. Furthermore, there is no direct connection between particular market conditions and price trends. There are so many influences on the markets that the same general type of economic event may lead to a price trend in some cases but not in others. The analysis is further complicated by the fact that the programs are designed to recognize only certain types of trends and to apply only certain criteria of when a trend has begun. Consequently, even though significant price trends may occur, if these trends are not comprised of the type of intra period price movements which the programs are designed to identify, the Partnership may miss the trend altogether. The following performance summary outlines certain major price trends which the JWH programs have identified for the Partnership since inception. The fact that certain trends were captured does not imply that others, perhaps larger and potentially more profitable trends, were not missed or that JWH will be able to capture similar trends in the future. Moreover, the fact that the programs were profitable in certain market sectors in the past does not mean that they will be so in the future. This performance summary is an outline description of how the Partnership performed in the past, not necessarily any indication of how it will perform in the future. In addition, the general causes to which certain price movements are attributed may or may not in fact have caused such movements, but simply occurred at or about the same time. While there can be no assurance that trading directed by JWH will be profitable under any given market condition, markets in which substantial and sustained price movements occur typically offer the best profit potential for the Partnership. Performance Summary 2006 Metals $ 41,738,896 Agricultural Commodities (11,014,707 ) Energy (23,966,341 ) Interest Rates and Stock Indices (6,837,362 ) Currencies (146,361,350 ) $ (146,440,864 ) 17 The Partnerships performance was an overall loss in 2006 with metals and stock indices posting gains and agriculture, interest rates, energy and currencies posting losses. The metals sector was the most profitable for the Partnership. At the beginning of the year, gold surged to a 25 year high and silver climbed to its highest level since March 1984. This trend continued through the second quarter with silver climbing 51%. Factors contributing to the rise in silver include the escalating dispute with Iran combined with a falling U. S. dollar which helped to push the precious metal higher as investors look for a safe haven given the global geopolitical uncertainty. Both base and precious metals began to retreat from highs set in the middle of the quarter. Gold fell to a three month low after reaching a 26 year high in May. The sharp sell off was caused by the combination of a stronger U.S. dollar, as investors bought dollars as an alternative to gold, and speculation that the Federal Reserve could hike interest rates as much as 50 basis points. Silvers rally was due to increased demand throughout the world and expectations of continued economic expansion of developing nations. Base and precious metals suffered as commodities as an asset class had their biggest quarterly decline in at least 50 years. During the third quarter, gold and silver prices continued to fall as lower energy prices and a stronger U.S. dollar eroded the appeal of the precious metals as an alternative to U.S. stocks and bonds. Although weakness in precious metals hurt performance, the Partnership was able to profit from falling base metal prices. New York copper futures fell 10 percent in December as inventories of the metal used in wires and pipes grew, a sign of weakening demand. London Metals Exchange copper for March delivery touched $6,250 a metric ton, the lowest since April 20th. Nevertheless, coppers gain for the year in London was 44 percent and 41 percent in New York. Stock indices also posted profits for the Partnership. European stock indices had their best January rally in eight years as energy stocks along with miners and steelmakers gained on expectations earnings would benefit from higher commodity prices. The middle of the first quarter was volatile for the stock indices sector as the Asian stock indices posted their first monthly decline since October 2005, however the decline reversed at the end of the quarter as Asian stocks approached a 16 year high partly due to surging demand for metals and oil. The interest rate rise, along with China asking the nations banks to restrict lending to prevent the economy from overheating, sent shares of mining companies and commodity producers lower on speculation that increased borrowing costs could curb demand for raw materials in Chinas economy. Global equity markets began to fall mid year after the U.S. Federal Reserve met and an additional rate hike was still a possibility in June. The losses continued through the end of the second quarter due to mounting speculation that actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve would hurt economic growth and 16 central banks raised interest rates to contain inflation. However, as it became evident that the U.S. Federal Reserve was actually closer to ending its rate hiking cycle world equity markets rallied. The third quarter began with a substantial portion of world equity markets trend less as investors continued to speculate over the U.S. Federal Reserves next move. Global equities reversed the recent losing trend and rallied partly due to decreased concerns about inflation. U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers signaled that the economy may have cooled enough to preclude further interest rate increases for the remainder of the year. European stocks rallied at the end of the quarter to a five year high. The fourth quarter began with the All Ordinarys index rising to a record. Also advancing were the U.S. benchmark indices, as earlier optimism that United States households would sustain economic growth pushed the Dow industrials to a record high during October and sent the S&P 500 to its highest level since November 2000. Three United States benchmarks had their biggest monthly gain since November 2005, with the Dow gaining 3.4 percent, the S&P 500 climbing 3.2 percent, and the NASDAQ advancing 4.8 percent. The year ended as Japanese stocks completed their longest yearly winning streak since 1989. The Japanese yen reached an all time low of 156.73 against the Euro helping to advance Japanese equities (a weaker Japanese yen boosts the value of euro denominated sales when converted back into local currency). The agriculture sector posted losses for the Partnership. The year began with record highs as a result of the surging cost of crude oil which increased the demand for ethanol, a sugar cane by product. Brazil, the biggest producer and exporter of sugar, has been converting more of its sugar cane crop to ethanol in connection with record gasoline prices. New York coffee rose to seven month highs as worldwide demand outpaced supply. New York coffee and New York sugar hindered returns in the middle of the first quarter while trading in Chicago Board of Traders (CBOT) wheat limited losses. The first quarter ended with sugar prices in London rising to their highest levels since 1989 on speculation that a jump in the cost of oil will force Brazil to direct more of its output towards producing ethanol. Mid year, cotton fell to its lowest close since December 2, 2005. The gains in cotton were not enough, however, to offset the losses in the rest of the sector as choppy price action dominated the sectors performance. Sugar, whose demand has 18 increased on its ability to be made into ethanol, fell as energy prices dropped mid year. Weather conditions had severe affects on various crops in the U.S. and around the world. CBOT wheat fell to a five week low in the middle of June, after warm dry weather in the central U.S. helped farmers speed up the harvest. At the beginning of the third quarter, New York and London sugar under performed on speculation that global demand will slow. Corn and soybeans also hurt performance as price volatility caused by fluctuating weather conditions in the U.S. Midwest threatened crop yields. Also contributing to corn price volatility was a report issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture that indicated approximately 59% of the corn crop was in good condition, which was the lowest percentage of the year. Losses in wheat third quarter were offset by gains in sugar. World sugar production in 2006 was higher than previously forecasted easing a third straight annual shortfall as favorable weather in India helped the harvest. The third quarter ended with sugar prices plunging on speculation that demand would fall as lower energy costs discouraged the use of sugar as an alternative fuel source eroding the value of ethanol. At the beginning of the fourth quarter, corn, the biggest U.S. crop, reached a two year high. Wheat prices fell 13 percent since reaching $5.57, a ten year high, on October 17th. Wheat prices fell on speculation that U.S. farmers may increase the acreage planted with the grain this year. The sectors worst performer was London sugar. Sugar fell as supplies are set to grow 3.9 percent faster than expected demand in 2007 which may leave unsold stockpiles at approximately 49 percent of global consumption by the end of September 2007, the highest percentage in ten years. Toward the end of 2006, corn and soybean futures in Chicago rose on signs that export demand for the two biggest U.S. crops remained strong even after price rallies. Farmers in Brazil, growers of Robusta and Arabica beans traded in New York, held back supplies because drought conditions may reduce the 2007 crop. 2006 ended with soybean prices falling on prospects that rains may have improved South American crops. Despite the fall, soybeans rose to a 17 month high on December 29th in Chicago on speculation that rising corn prices will cut plantings of the oilseed. Corn is more appealing than soybeans for U.S. farmers because of record demand for ethanol, a fuel being added to gasoline to meet federal mandates for renewable energy. The interest rate sector posted losses for the Partnership. The year began with fixed income markets in the U.S., Europe and Japan selling off over fears of their respective central banks raising interest rates. The sector benefited from Japanese Government bonds, which was a price decline. Eurodollar posted gains which were offset by losses in U.S. 30 year bonds, German bunds and bobl. During the first quarter, the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank raised their respective interest rates 25 basis points. A catalyst for the sell off was growing speculation in the markets that both central banks would be forced to continue to raise rates after confidence reports released in both Europe (IFO) and the U.S. (consumer confidence) on March 28th were stronger than expected. Mid year European, Japanese and U.S. fixed income markets sold off which significantly added to the Partnerships performance. The Japanese ten year bond (JGBs) added to the sectors performance as it fell for a fifth month, the longest since 1990, on concerns that the Bank of Japan will raise interest rates this year. Yields on U.S. ten year Treasuries rose for a fifth straight month mid year, the longest stretch since 1999. During the third quarter, the U.S. benchmark ten year along with the U.S. ten year Treasury bond were the worst performers in the sector as the slowing U.S. economy spurred speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will stop raising interest rates. The Bank of Japan raised the rate between lenders 25 basis points on July 14th ending a five year policy of keeping borrowing costs near zero percent. Japanese government bonds, German bunds, and the U.S. benchmark ten year Treasury bond rallied. Investors drove yields lower as a smaller than expected increase in consumer prices, as well as a sharp drop in industrial production, caused speculation that the Bank of Japan would keep interest rates at their current level for the remainder of the year. U.S. bonds were supported by the U.S. Federal Reserves decision to benchmark U.S. interest rate at 5.25 percent, ending a record two year run of 17 straight rate increases. The U.S. ten year yield touched a seven month low of 4.53 percent on September 25th, down from 5.14 percent on June 30th as expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve would raise interest rates further gave way to the view that it may lower them in the near future. During the beginning of the fourth quarter, U.S., European, and Japanese debt markets suffered reversals over speculation surrounding potential global interest rate moves. Japanese ten year bonds and German ten year government bonds (Bunds) were the worst performing components in the sector on expectations that the European Central Bank (ECB) and Bank of Japan (BOJ) would have to keep raising interest rates to help contain inflation. Later in the fourth quarter, U.S. Treasuries rose, pushing the benchmark ten year note yields to 4.46 percent, the lowest since January. U.S. Treasuries gained after the NAPM Chicago business barometer declined to 49.9 from 53.5 in October, (a reading below 50 signals a contraction). The U.S. Federal Reserves last series of interest rate cuts in 2001 began five months after the business barometer dropped below 50. The year ended as German and U.S. government 19 bonds fell, experiencing reversing trends while JGBs oscillated due to market speculation on whether the BOJ would raise interest rates. On December 8th, JGBs posted their biggest weekly decline in four months as investors increased their positions based on the belief that the BOJ would raise rates at its December meeting. German government bonds fell on speculation the ECB will keep lifting rates into next year. Benchmark U.S. two year notes had their longest losing run in more than 15 years in December, driving yields to their highest in more than four years. U.S. Treasuries also fell, enduring their first December loss in five years. The energy sector posted losses for the Partnership. At the beginning of the year volatility within the energy sector increased as oil and natural gas were being used as geopolitical weapons by Iran, Russia, Venezuela and militants in Bolivia. Natural gas fell 17 percent around the beginning of the year as mild weather in several of the largest U.S. consuming regions cut demand which limited the need for utilities to pull from reserves . The market continued to be apprehensive in connection with geopolitical conflicts in the middle East and Nigeria. Mid year concerns that the U.N. Security Council will impose sanctions that could lead Iran, the fourth largest oil producer, to cut shipments drove crude oil for June delivery to a new high of $75.35 a barrel. Increased geopolitical uncertainty drove all petroleum based products higher. While the sector benefited from increased instability in the world, mild weather in the U.S. hindered performance as natural gas has fallen 20 percent and approached a nine month low as demand slowed. Crude oil spiked on July 14th to a record high on concern that the fighting in Lebanon might spread to other parts of the Middle East, which is the source of approximately a third of the worlds oil. Crude oil plunged 25 percent in October, since reaching a record high on July 14th. Energy prices continued their downward trend as warm weather in the northern U.S. reduced fuel demand. Also contributing to the downward price movement were signs that OPEC would not cut production as much as previously pledged. Crude oil fell to a 17 month low. The year ended with the population centers of the Midwest and Northeast, where demand for gas is highest, experiencing weather as much as 25 percent warmer than normal. Forecasters said an El Nino weather pattern, which typically brings above average winter temperature, is affecting much of the U.S. crude oil for February 2007 delivery touched $59.99, the lowest since November 27th, while heating oil for January 2007 delivery touched $1.5995, the lowest since October 31st. The currencies sector posted the greatest losses for the Partnership. At the beginning of the year foreign exchange sector suffered losses as the U.S. dollar posted its biggest monthly decline against the euro since November 2004. This was significantly due to the markets anticipation of the U.S. Federal Reserves removal of measured pace from its statement after its meeting on January 31st. The euro also benefited as the market waited for whether the European Central Banks meeting on February 2, 2006 would raise borrowing costs as Europes economy strengthened. During the second quarter, stronger than expected core Consumer Price (CPI) coupled with statements from U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke calling recent increases in inflation measures an unwelcome development, led investors to speculate that the U.S. Federal Reserve might raise rates 50 basis points rather than the previously expected 25. The increased rate speculation helped the U.S. dollar reach an eight week high of 1,2479 against the euro. On June 29th, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised rates 25 basis points and suggested it may be nearing the end of its 2 year cycle of rate increases as the statement announcing their decision indicated that slowing economic growth should help to limit inflation pressures. As a result, the U.S. dollar reversed once again and weakened during the last two days of the month. During the third quarter, fighting broke out between Israel and Hezbollah causing a sharp reversal in the weakening U.S. dollar trend. The U.S. dollar rallied as fighting in the Middle East escalated sending the currency higher against the Japanese yen and euro. Unfortunately, most of the gains disappeared as investors focused on interest rates after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke stated that moderation in the economy was under way. On October 13th, the dollar rose to its highest level against the Japanese yen this year and the strongest level versus the euro since July, after a government report showed U.S. retail sales excluding gasoline increased in September. On October 31st however, the U.S. dollar had given up most of its gains from earlier in the month and dropped to its lowest level in five weeks against the euro and Japanese yen after a survey of purchasing managers showed business declined and a report revealed U.S consumer confidence unexpectedly fell for the month. The data provided evidence of a slowdown in the worlds largest economy, increasing speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve may cut borrowing costs early in 2007 reducing the appeal of dollar denominated assets. Near the end of the year the U.S. dollar tumbled to a 20 month low against the euro and approached a three month low versus the Japanese yen. The year ended as higher European interest rates helped the euro reach a record high against the Japanese yen on December 29th and caused the Japanese yen to fall to its lowest level since 1998 versus the British pound. 20 2005 Metals $ (4,219,696 ) Agricultural Commodities (6,807,238 ) Energy (39,814,815 ) Interest Rates and Stock Indices (42,415,774 ) Currencies (169,671,873 ) $ (262,929,396 ) The Partnership posted losses in all sectors. Trading in the metals sectors was the least unprofitable for the Partnership. At the beginning of the year, the loss in metals was primarily due to the weakness in both gold and aluminum. Gold which recently had a strong inverse relationship with the U.S. dollar came under pressure as the U.S. dollar strengthened. Aluminum sustained losses as supply increases in Shanghai (among other factors) put pressure on the market. A decrease in the Institute for Supply Management Non Manufacturing Business Activity Index in the beginning of the second quarter initially caused base metal prices to fall, while precious metals continued to appreciate. Gold prices rose in the middle of the second quarter as crude oil surged, and then dipped with the strengthening of the U.S. economy. Gold prices continued to fall early in the third quarter as the U.S. dollar strengthened, reducing the metals appeal as an alternative investment. The cumulative effects of severe price action in the currencies and fixed income markets along with the market impact of Hurricane Katrina led gold to under perform. However, gold futures for December delivery closed at $475.80 on September 29th, the highest since January 1988. November 29th, was also a record day as gold reached $506.70, the highest price for a most active contract since December 1987. Even though the metals sector had gains at the end of the year, that was not enough to offset the combined losses in other sectors. The agricultural sector proved to be the second least unprofitable for the Partnership. Early in the year there was forecasted a drought season in Brazil which positively effected soy bean prices near term. Through the middle part of the year, there was no discernable trend in agricultural commodities due to the fact of the increased volatility in the market. Coffee returns rose after flooding caused by Hurricane Katrina placed bean inventories at risk in New Orleans, the second largest coffee port in the U.S. Sugar was an important commodity in the last quarter with the European Union intentionally limiting the supply of white sugar in London and rising Brazilian demand for ethanol made from cane. However, the European Union was forced to cut sugar prices 36% after the World Trade Organization ruled that the Euro nations were illegally subsidizing prices. The year ended with coffee trading being a very significant part of this sector due to the fact that on December 9th Brazil, the worlds largest coffee grower, announced its 2006 2007 crop would increase by 43.6 million bags which was less that what was expected. The energy sector also posted losses for the Partnership. The bull market trend did continue through the beginning of the year as commodity prices surged to a 24 year high due to signs of growing global demand for energy related goods. However, as it appeared that global demand for oil would peak to a record 86.4 million barrels a day in the 4th quarter, an Energy Department report informed investors of an unexpected surge in supplies because of increased productivity in refineries. Natural gas prices retreated from record highs set in September, which resulted when Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Gulf Coast. The year ended with a dramatic fall in prices as a result of private and government forecasters calling for warmer than normal temperature across the country for the beginning of January. Predictions stated that demand in the Midwest, where natural gas is the major heating fuel, will be 20 percent lower than normal on average and in the Northeast, where 80 percent of the nations heating oil is used, will be 13 percent lower than normal on average. Crude oils surge at the end of December also hindered performance as the pricing dispute between Russia and the Ukraine disrupted shipments of natural gas to Europe and raised concerns that Russia is not a reliable energy supplier. 21 Stock indices and interest rate futures was the fourth least profitable sector for the Partnership. Losses occurred in the beginning of the year resulting from a sell off in world equity markets, as stocks weakened because of high energy prices. In addition, stocks dropped as American International Group Inc., the worlds largest insurer, lost its top credit rating. Japanese stocks rallied in the third quarter on the news that the European Central Bank upgraded its assessment of the Japanese economy, citing improved business confidence and greater company investments however; gains were limited as the majority of the worlds equity markets weakened due to record oil prices, caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Interest rate futures having losses that were directly related to the fixed income sector as the European, Japanese and U.S. bond markets sold off. The catalyst for the dramatic move higher in world interest rates was the cumulative effect of increases in both energy prices and inflation expectations. During the second quarter, Japans government bond yields experienced record lows because of anticipated economic slowdowns for two main reasons; the projection that the demand for regional goods would wane because of a slowing U.S. economy and record high oil prices were expected to take a serious toll on the nation. Sectors gains in the third quarter were limited as the majority of the worlds equity markets weakened during the quarter on concerns of record oil prices, caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The year ended with limited performance in the European fixed income market volatility caused by changing expectations as to whether or not the European Central Bank rate hike was a single increase or the beginning of a series of further moves. Trading in currencies was the least profitable for the Partnership. Loss in the beginning of the year was directly related to the strength of the U.S. dollar against most major currencies. The recent dollar strength began when Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan predicted that the deficit in the U.S. current account, the broadest measure of trade, may shrink. However, the second quarter ended with a widening spread between the two year U.S. Treasury note and the German schatz (two year note), along with the rally of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen. In the third quarter, China revalued its yuan for the first time in a decade. The currency sector continued to suffer as the U.S. dollar rallied against the Euro, Swiss franc and British pound, but offset in part by gains in the Japanese yen and Brazilian real. The year ended with the U.S. dollar reversing its strengthening to the Japanese yen because of the apparent Federal Reserve signals that it was closer to ending its rate hiking cycle. The sector also incurred losses from weakness in the British pound as it weakened on expectations that the Bank of England may have to cut rates. 2004 Energy $ 173,869,113 Interest Rates and Stock Indices 43,882,548 Currencies 32,940,127 Agricultural Commodities 20,007,411 Metals (27,936,564 ) $ 242,762,635 The energy sector had the highest gains for this Partnership. The upward trend in crude oil prices and related products continued in their secular bull market trend, in a very volatile fashion. Colder than expected winter months, rising demand out of Asia, supply disruptions in Iraq, fears of worldwide terrorism, an active hurricane season in the U.S., and unrest in Nigeria, all seem to have contributed to supporting high prices throughout the year. The end of the year did witness a pull back from the all time highs in energy prices, possibly due to U.S. heating oil perceptions regarding the weather in the U.S. Northeast. Stock indices and interest rate futures posted the second highest gains for the Partnership. Stock indices had strong gains in the beginning and end of the year. The re election of President Bush and the lack of any terrorist activity during the U.S. elections may have combined to decrease the uncertainty that had plagued the world equity markets. U.S., European and Japanese stocks rallied after the U.S. election and energy prices decreased. Early gains for the interest rate 22 futures may have been based upon the U.S. Federal Reserves accommodating interest rate policy being maintained. Interest rates in the European Central Bank community experienced a certain amount of downward pressure, due to a terrorist attack in Spain, which may have dampened confidence in local communities. German interest rates fell as bond prices rose after a report that German business confidence unexpectedly dropped to a nine month low as consumers curtailed their spending activity. The hawkish stance of the U.S. Federal Reserve combined with the expected concretionary effect of higher energy prices helped to push long term interest rates lower and flatten the yield curve. The year ended on increased volatility in the currency and energy sectors which seemed to spill over to the debt markets and thereby may have negatively affected the Partnerships performance. The currency sector posted the third highest profit for the Partnership. The weakening U.S. dollar continued to decline as it has for over a year and the Partnership was well positioned to capitalize on its U.S. dollar positions against other currencies. The strengthening in the U.S. dollar in mid year attributed to losses. The U.S. dollar weakened again in October. As a result of the U.S. dollars weakness, many currency markets were able to break out of their well established trading ranges. The U.S. dollars decline, which seems to have resulted from the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the U.S. election, led to profitable currency trades for the Partnership. December marked the third consecutive annual decline of the dollar against both the euro and the yen. Agricultural sector posted gains for the Partnership. The best performers in the sector were corn, soybeans and soybean oil. The price of cotton continued to move lower due to the World Trade Organizations ruling in June that U.S. subsidies to U.S. farmers are illegal, paving the way for increased cotton planting in other countries. The only notable gain was in coffee, as prices rose to a four year high on expectations that global demand was outpacing production, mainly because Brazil, the worlds top grower, harvested a small crop. The metals sector was the most unprofitable for the Partnership. Prices of base metals consolidated within certain ranges as the market weighed information that Chinas appetite for metals may be saturated as that country seems to be attempting to rein in rapid domestic growth. Precious metal prices fell steeply in the beginning of the second quarter as investors liquidated long positions which had been a hedge against the negative real rate of return environment in the U.S. The sector ended the year unprofitable as trading in the metals sector was mixed as the U.S. dollars instability and economic data reports influenced trading. Gold hurt the metal sectors performance as it suffered its biggest decline in more than a year after trading near record highs. Golds decline was possibly due to speculation over the prospects of continued dollar weakening. The largest loss occurred in silver. Variables Affecting Performance The principal variables that determine the net performance of the Partnership are gross profitability from the Partnerships trading activities and interest income. During all periods set forth above Selected Financial Data, the interest rates in many countries were at unusually low levels. The low interest rates in the United States (although higher than in many other countries) negatively impacted revenues because interest income is typically a major component of the Partnerships profitability. In addition, low interest rates are frequently associated with reduced fixed income market volatility, and in static markets the Partnerships profit potential generally tends to be diminished. On the other hand, during periods of higher interest rates, the relative attractiveness of a high risk investment such as the Partnership may be reduced as compared to high yielding and much lower risk fixed income investments. The Partnerships Brokerage Commissions and Administrative Fees are a constant percentage of the Partnership costs (other than the insignificant currency trading costs which are not based on a percentage of the Partnerships assets allocated to trading or total) and the Profit Shares payable to the Advisor based on the new Trading Profits generated by the Partnership excluding interest and after reduction for a portion of the Brokerage Commissions. Unlike many investment fields, there is no meaningful distinction in the operation of the Partnership between realized and unrealized profits. Most of the contracts traded by the Partnership are highly liquid and can be closed out at any time. 23 Except in unusual circumstances, factors regulatory approvals, cost of goods sold, employee relations and the like which often materially affect an operating business have virtually no impact on the Partnership. Liquidity; Capital Resources The Partnership borrows only to a limited extent and only on a strictly short term basis in order to finance losses on non U.S. dollar denominated trading positions pending the conversion of the Partnerships U.S. dollar deposits. These borrowings are at a prevailing short term rate in the relevant currency. Inflation by itself does not affect profitability, but it can cause price movements that do so. The Partnerships assets and open positions are generally highly liquid. The Partnership changes its positions and market focus frequently. Consequently, the fact that the Partnership realized gains or incurred losses in certain markets (gold, stock indices, currencies, etc.) in the past is not necessarily indicative of whether the Partnership will do so in the future. (The Partnership has no off balance sheet arrangements or tabular disclosure of contractual obligations of the type described in Items 3.03(a)(4) and 3.03(a)(5) of Regulation S K.) Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Introduction The Partnership is a speculative commodity pool. The market sensitive instruments held by it are acquired for speculative trading purposes and all or substantially all of the Partnerships assets are subject to the risk of trading loss. Unlike an operating company, the risk of market sensitive instruments is integral, not incidental, to the Partnerships main line of business. Market movements result in frequent changes in the fair market value of the Partnerships open positions and, consequently, in its earnings and cash flow. The Partnerships market risk is influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the level and volatility of interest rates, exchange rates, equity price levels, the market value of financial instruments and contracts, the diversification effects among the Partnerships open positions and the liquidity of the markets in which it trades. The Partnership, under the direction of JWH, rapidly acquires and liquidates both long and short positions in a wide range of different markets. Consequently, it is not possible to predict how a possible future market scenario will affect performance, and the Partnerships past performance is not necessarily indicative of its future results. Value at Risk is a measure of the maximum amount which the Partnership could reasonably be expected to lose in a given market sector. However, the inherent uncertainty of the Partnerships speculative trading and the recurrence in the markets traded by the Partnership of market movements far exceeding expectations could result in actual trading or non trading losses far beyond the indicated Value at Risk or the Partnerships experience to date (i.e., risk of ruin). In light of the foregoing as well as the risks and uncertainties intrinsic to all future projections, the inclusion of the quantification in this section should not be considered to constitute any assurance or representation that the Partnerships losses in any market sector will be limited to Value at Risk or by the Partnerships attempts to manage its market risk. Quantifying the Partnerships Trading Value at Risk Quantitative Forward Looking Statements The following quantitative disclosures regarding the Partnerships market risk exposures contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor from civil liability provided for such statements by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (set forth in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). All quantitative disclosures in this section are deemed to be forward looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor, except for statements of historical fact. 24 The Partnerships risk exposure in the various market sectors traded by JWH is quantified below in terms of Value at Risk. Due to the Partnerships mark to market accounting, any loss in the fair value of the Partnerships open positions is directly reflected in the Partnerships earnings (realized or unrealized) and cash flow (at least in the case of exchange traded contracts in which profits and losses on open positions are settled daily through variation margin). Exchange maintenance margin requirements have been used by the Partnership as the measure of its Value at Risk. Maintenance margin requirements are set by exchanges to equal or exceed the maximum loss in the fair value of any given contract incurred in 95% to 99% of the one day time periods included in the historical sample (approximately one year, generally) researched for purposes of establishing margin levels. The maintenance margin levels are established by dealers and exchanges using historical price studies as well as an assessment of current market volatility (including the implied volatility of the options on a given futures contract) and economic fundamentals to provide a probabilistic estimate of the maximum expected near term one day price fluctuation. In the case of market sensitive instruments which are not exchange traded (almost exclusively currencies in the case of the Partnership), the margin requirements for the equivalent futures positions have been used as Value at Risk. In those rare cases in which a futures equivalent margin is not available, dealers margins have been used. 100% positive correlation in the different positions held in each market risk category has been assumed. Consequently, the margin requirements applicable to the open contracts have been aggregated to determine each trading categorys aggregate Value at Risk. The diversification effects (which would reduce the Value at Risk estimates) resulting from the fact that the Partnerships positions are rarely, if ever, 100% positively correlated have not been reflected. The Partnerships Trading Value at Risk in Different Market Sectors The following table indicates the average, highest, and lowest trading Value at Risk associated with the Partnerships open positions by market category for the fiscal year 2006. During the fiscal year 2006, the Partnerships average capitalization was approximately $1,050,574,066. During the fiscal year 2005, the Partnerships average capitalization was approximately $1,266,792,130. December 31, 2006 Market Sector Average Value at Risk % of Average Capitalization Highest Value at Risk Lowest Value at Risk Interest Rates $ 86,057,447 8.19 % $ 143,544,330 $ 9,595,799 Currencies 42,127,000 4.01 % 110,188,145 6,095,675 Stock Indices 6,418,343 0.61 % 16,139,891 1,859,211 Metals 3,059,157 0.29 % 9,249,917 742,261 Agricultural Commodities 1,945,839 0.19 % 4,518,867 191,779 Energy 2,817,055 0.27 % 8,262,234 316,632 Total $ 142,424,841 13.56 % $ 291,903,384 $ 18,801,357 25 December 31, 2005 Market Sector Average Value at Risk % of Average Capitalization Highest Value at Risk Lowest Value at Risk Interest Rates $ 142,742,675 11.27 % $ 181,601,445 $ 62,044,637 Currencies 50,967,050 4.02 % 127,242,192 8,912,271 Stock Indices 8,390,092 0.66 % 14,588,445 977,681 Metals 5,903,722 0.47 % 12,418,364 1,917,416 Agricultural Commodities 2,308,948 0.18 % 9,356,136 196,520 Energy 15,222,171 1.20 % 33,067,577 2,237,290 Total $ 225,534,657 17.80 % $ 378,274,159 $ 76,285,815 Material Limitations on Value at Risk as an Assessment of Market Risk The face value of the market sector instruments held by the Partnership is typically many times the applicable maintenance margin requirement (maintenance margin requirements generally ranging between approximately 1% and 10% of contract face value) as well as many times the capitalization of the Partnership. The magnitude of the Partnerships open positions creates a risk of ruin not typically found in most other investment vehicles. Because of the size of its positions, certain market conditions unusual, but historically recurring from time to time could cause the Partnership to incur severe losses over a short period of time. Even comparatively minor losses could cause MLAI to further deleverage or terminate the Partnerships trading. The foregoing Value at Risk table as well as the past performance of the Partnership gives no indication of this risk of ruin. Non Trading Risk Foreign Currency Balances; Cash on Deposit with MLPF&S The Partnership has non trading market risk on its foreign cash balances not needed for margin. These balances (as well as the market risk they represent) are generally immaterial. The Partnership also has non trading market risk on the approximately 90 95% of its assets which are held in cash at MLPF&S. The value of this cash is not interest rate sensitive, but there is cash flow risk in that if interest rates decline so will the cash flow generated on these monies. This cash flow risk is generally immaterial. Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Primary Trading Risk Exposures The following qualitative disclosures regarding the Partnerships market risk exposures through the joint venture except for (i) those disclosures that are statements of historical fact and (ii) the descriptions of how the Partnership manages its primary market risk exposures constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. The Partnerships primary market risk exposures as well as the strategies used and to be used by MLAI and JWH for managing such exposures are subject to numerous uncertainties, contingencies and risks, any one of which could cause the actual results of the risk controls for the Partnership and for the trading conducted through the joint venture to differ materially from the objectives of such strategies. Government interventions, defaults and expropriations, illiquid markets, the emergence of dominant fundamental factors, political upheavals, changes in historical price relationships, an influx of new market participants, increased regulation and many other factors could result in material losses as well as in material changes to the risk exposures and the risk management strategies of the Partnership. There can be no assurance that the Partnerships and joint ventures current market exposure and or risk management strategies will not change materially or that any such strategies will be effective in either the short or long term. Investors must be prepared to lose all or substantially all of the value of their investment in the Partnership. 26 The following were the primary trading risk exposures of the Partnership as of December 31, 2006, by market sector. Currencies. The Partnership trades a large number of currencies. However, the Partnerships major exposures have typically been in the U.S. dollar/Japanese yen, U.S. dollar/Swiss Franc, U.S. dollar/Euro and U.S. dollar/ British pound positions. The Partnership does not anticipate that the risk profile of the Partnerships currency sector will change significantly in the future. The currency trading Value at Risk figure includes foreign margin amounts converted into U.S. dollars with an incremental adjustment to reflect the exchange rate risk of maintaining Value at Risk in a functional currency other than U.S. dollars. Interest Rates. Interest rate movements directly affect the price of derivative sovereign bond positions held by the Partnership and indirectly the value of its stock index and currency positions. Interest rate movements in one country, as well as relative interest rate movements between countries, materially impact the Partnerships profitability. The Partnerships primary interest rate exposure is to interest rate fluctuations in the United States, Europe and Japan. However, the Partnership also takes positions in the government debt of smaller nations e.g., Canada and Australia. Stock Indices. The Partnerships primary equity exposure is to liquid global equity index price movements. As of December 31, 2006, the Partnerships primary exposures were in the Nasdaq E mini, Nikkei (Japan) and Eurostoxx 50 stock indices. The Partnership is primarily exposed to the risk of adverse price trends or static markets in the major U.S., European and Asian indices. Energy. The Partnerships primary energy market exposure is to natural gas and oil price movements. Oil prices can be volatile and substantial profits and losses have been, and are expected to continue to be, experienced in these markets. Metals. The Partnerships primary metals market exposure is to fluctuations in the price of gold. JWH also trades silver and base metals such as aluminum and copper, Gold prices can be volatile, and JWH has from time to time taken substantial gold positions. Agricultural Commodities. The Partnerships primary agricultural commodities exposure is to agricultural price movements, which can be directly affected by severe or unexpected weather conditions. Sugar and coffee accounted for a large portion of the Partnerships commodities exposure as of December 31, 2006. In the past, the Partnership has had material market exposure to grains and live cattle and may do so again in the future. However, MLAI anticipates that JWH will maintain an emphasis on grains, coffee, sugar, and meats in which the Partnership has historically taken its largest agricultural positions. Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Non Trading Risk Exposure The following were the only non trading risk exposures of the Partnership as of December 31, 2006. Foreign Currency Balances. The Partnerships primary foreign currency balances are in Japanese yen, Euro and British pounds. U.S. Dollar Cash Balance The Partnership hold U.S. dollars only in cash at MLPF&S. The Partnership has immaterial cash flow interest rate risk on its cash on deposit with MLPF&S in that declining interest rates would cause the income from such cash to decline. 27 Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Means of Managing Risk Exposure Trading Risk MLAI has procedures in place intended to control market risk, although there can be no assurance that they will, in fact, succeed in doing so. While MLAI does not itself intervene in the markets to hedge or diversify the Partnerships market exposure; MLAI may urge JWH to reallocate positions in an attempt to avoid over concentrations. However, such interventions are unusual. Except in cases in which it appears that JWH has begun to deviate from past practice and trading policies or to be trading erratically, MLAI basic risk control procedures consist simply of the ongoing process of monitoring JWH with the market risk controls being applied by JWH itself. Risk Management JWH attempts to control risk in all aspects of the investment process from confirmation of a trend to determining the optimal exposure in a given market, and to money management issues such as the startup or upgrade of investor accounts. JWH double checks the accuracy of market data, and will not trade a market without multiple price sources for analytical input. In constructing a portfolio, JWH seeks to control overall risk as well as the risk of any one position, and JWH trades only markets that have been identified as having positive performance characteristics. Trading discipline requires plans for the exit of a market as well as for entry. JWH factors the point of exit into the decision to enter (stop loss). The size of JWHs positions in a particular market is not a matter of how large a return can be generated but of how much risk it is willing to take relative to that expected return. To attempt to reduce the risk of volatility while maintaining the potential for excellent performance, proprietary research is conducted on an ongoing basis to refine the JWH investment strategies. Research may suggest substitution of alternative investment methodologies with respect to particular contracts; this may occur, for example, when the testing of a new methodology has indicated that its use might have resulted in different historical performance. In addition, risk management research and analysis may suggest modifications regarding the relative weighting among various contracts, the addition or deletion of particular contracts for a program, or a change in position size in relation to account equity. The weighting of capital committed to various markets in the investment programs is dynamic, and JWH may vary the weighting at its discretion as market conditions, liquidity, position limit considerations and other factors warrant. JWH may determine that risks arise when markets are illiquid or erratic, which may occur cyclically during holiday seasons, or on the basis of irregularly occurring market events. In such cases, JWH at its sole discretion may override computer generated signals and may at times use discretion in the application of its quantitative models, which may affect performance positively or negatively. Adjustments in position size in relation to account equity have been and continue to be an integral part of JWHs investment strategy. At its discretion, JWH may adjust the size of a position in relation to equity in certain markets or entire programs. Such adjustments may be made at certain times for some programs but not for others. Factors which may affect the decision to adjust the size of a position in relation to account equity include ongoing research, program volatility, assessments of current market volatility and risk exposure, subjective judgment, and evaluation of these and other general market conditions. Non Trading Risk The Partnership controls the non trading exchange rate risk by regularly converting foreign currency balances back into U.S. dollars at least once per week and more frequently if a particular foreign currency balance becomes unusually high. The Partnership has cash flow interest rate risk on its cash on deposit with MLPF&S in that declining 28 interest rates would cause the income from such cash to decline. However, a certain amount of cash or cash equivalents must be held by the Partnership in order to facilitate margin payments and pay expenses and redemptions. MLAI does not take any steps to limit the cash flow risk on the cash held on deposit at MLPF&S. 
</SECTION>
