<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: UAL CORP /DE/
CIK: 0000100517
SIC: 4512
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. UAL Loyalty Services, LLC. ULS focuses on expanding the non core marketing businesses of United and building airline customer loyalty. ULS operates substantially all United branded travel distribution and customer loyalty e commerce activities, such as united.com. In addition, ULS owns and operates Mileage Plus, being responsible for member relationships, communications and account management; while United is responsible for other aspects of Mileage Plus, including elite membership programs such as Global Services, Premier, Premier Executive and Premier Executive 1K, and the establishment of award mileage redemption programs and airline related customer loyalty recognition policies. United is also responsible for managing relationships with its Mileage Plus airline partners, while ULS manages relationships with non airline business partners, such as the Mileage Plus Visa Card, hotels, car rental companies and dining programs, among others. Distribution Channels. The majority of Uniteds airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and GDS, such as Sabre and Galileo. The growing use of alternative distribution systems, including the Companys website and GDS new entrants, however, provides United with an opportunity to lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of lower cost channels and capitalize on these cost saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its website, www.united.com, and it guarantees the availability of the lowest prices on united.com. Industry Conditions Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Companys operations can be adversely impacted by severe weather and the first and fourth quarter results of operations normally reflect lower travel demand. Historically, results of operations are better in the second and third quarters which reflect higher levels of travel demand. Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. In domestic markets, new and existing carriers are generally free to initiate service between any two points within the U.S. Uniteds competitors consist primarily of other airlines, a number of whom are low cost carriers (LCC(s)) with lower cost structures than Uniteds, and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation. About 82% of Uniteds domestic revenue is now exposed to LCC competition. In 2006 and early 2007, Southwest Airlines, JetBlue Airways and other LCCs have initiated new service or expanded their service from certain of Uniteds hub cities. United has experience competing directly with LCCs in its markets and believes it is well positioned to compete effectively. Domestic pricing decisions are largely affected by the need to meet competition from other U.S. airlines. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Companys financial results because United often finds it necessary to match competitors fares to maintain passenger traffic. 9 Attempts by United and other network airlines to raise fares often fail due to lack of competitive matching by LCCs; however, because of the pressure of higher fuel prices and other industry conditions, some fare increases have occurred. Because of different cost structures, low ticket prices that generate a profit for a LCC have usually had a negative effect on the Companys financial results. International Competition. In Uniteds international networks, the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. Competition on specified international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulations. See Industry Regulation, below. As the U.S. is the largest market for air travel worldwide, Uniteds ability to generate U.S. originating traffic from its integrated domestic route systems provides United with an advantage over non U.S. carriers. Foreign carriers are prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the U.S. and United experiences comparable restrictions in foreign countries. In addition, U.S. carriers are often constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements or restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances and marketing arrangements that allow these carriers to feed traffic to each others flights (see Alliances, above, for further details). Insurance. United carries hull and liability insurance of a type customary in the air transportation industry, in amounts that the Company deems appropriate, covering passenger liability, public liability and damage to Uniteds aircraft and other physical property. United also maintains other types of insurance such as property, directors and officers, cargo, automobile and the like, with limits and deductibles that are standard within the industry. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Companys insurance premiums have increased significantly. Additionally, after September 11, 2001, commercial insurers canceled Uniteds liability insurance for losses resulting from war and associated perils (terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar events). The U.S. government subsequently agreed to provide commercial war risk insurance for U.S. based airlines until August 31, 2007 covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. The Secretary of Transportation may extend this coverage until December 31, 2007. If the U.S. government does not extend this coverage beyond August 31, 2007, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. See Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Companys operations and financial results in Item 1A. Risk Factors, below. Industry Regulation Domestic Regulation. General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the United States are subject to regulation by the DOT. Among its responsibilities, the DOT issues certificates of public convenience and necessity for domestic air transportation (no air carrier, unless exempted, may provide air transportation without a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity), grants international route authorities, approves international code share agreements, regulates methods of competition and enforces certain consumer protection regulations, such as those dealing with advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability. Airlines also are regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a division of the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance and other safety and technical matters. The FAA has authority to issue air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribe maintenance procedures, and regulate pilot and other employee training, among other responsibilities. From time to time, the FAA issues rules that require air carriers to take certain actions, such as the inspection or modification of aircraft and other equipment, that may cause the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to various other federal, state and local 10 laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has jurisdiction over virtually all aspects of civil aviation security. See Legislation, below. The U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). The Company is also subject to inquiries by the DOT, FAA and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies. Airport Access. Access to landing and take off rights, or slots, at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by United are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. The FAA designated John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in New York, LaGuardia Airport (LaGuardia) in New York and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in Washington, D.C. as high density traffic airports and has limited the number of departure and arrival slots at those airports. Slot restrictions at OHare were eliminated in July 2002 and were eliminated at JFK and LaGuardia in January 2007. From time to time, the elimination of slot restrictions has impacted Uniteds operational performance and reliability. Notwithstanding the formal elimination of slot restrictions at OHare in July 2002, the FAA imposed temporary restrictions on flight operations there beginning in 2004 to address air traffic congestion concerns. In August 2006, the FAA issued a longer term rule restricting flight operations at OHare, which remains in effect until 2008. At LaGuardia, the FAA has proposed an interim rule that would impose caps and restrictions on flight operations similar to those in effect at OHare. The interim rule took effect in January 2007 when the high density rule expired. The FAA has also proposed a longer term rule at LaGuardia that is designed to control air traffic congestion there indefinitely. The longer term proposal contains several novel elements that could impact Uniteds schedule and operational performance at LaGuardia. It is not possible to predict whether or when such longer term rules might take effect. Legislation. The airline industry is also subject to legislative activity that can have an impact on operations and costs. Specifically, the law that authorizes federal excise taxes and fees assessed on airline tickets expires in September 2007. In 2007, Congress will attempt to pass comprehensive reauthorization legislation to impose a new funding structure and make other changes to FAA operations. Past aviation reauthorization bills have affected a wide range of areas of interest to the industry, including air traffic control operations, capacity control issues, airline competition issues, aircraft and airport technology requirements, safety issues, taxes, fees and other funding sources. Additionally, since September 11, 2001, aviation security has been and continues to be a subject of frequent legislative action, requiring changes to our security processes and increasing the cost of security procedures for the Company. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the Aviation Security Act), enacted in November 2001, has had wide ranging effects on our operations. The Aviation Security Act made the federal government responsible for virtually all aspects of civil aviation security, creating a new Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is a part of the DHS pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002. Under the Aviation Security Act, substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees and significant other aspects of airline and airport security are now overseen by the TSA. Pursuant to the Aviation Security Act, funding for airline and airport security is provided in part by a passenger security fee of $2.50 per flight segment (capped at $10.00 per round trip), which is collected by the air carriers from passengers and remitted to the government. In addition, air carriers are required to submit to the government an additional security fee equal to the amount each air carrier paid for security screening of passengers and property in 2000. Congress is expected to continue to focus on changes to aviation security law and requirements in 2007. Particular areas of attention that could result in increased costs for air carriers will likely include new requirements on cargo screening, possible deployment of antimissile technology on passenger aircraft and potential for increased passenger and carrier security fees. 11 International Regulation. General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with Uniteds international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries United serves. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by treaties and related aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and or the relevant foreign governments. Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the number of markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market, and the frequency of carriers flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of open skies (meaning all carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access to foreign markets. Additionally, all of the airports that United serves in Europe and Asia maintain slot controls, and many of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow, Frankfurt and Tokyo Narita are among the most restrictive due to capacity limitations, and United has significant operations at these locations. Further, Uniteds ability to serve some countries and expand into certain others is limited by the absence altogether of aviation agreements between the U.S. and the relevant governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies can lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements between the U.S. and other countries. Depending on the nature of the change, the value of Uniteds route authorities may be materially enhanced or diminished. In February 2007, the U.S. government and the European Union (EU) Commission concluded the negotiation of a proposed transatlantic aviation agreement to replace the existing bilateral arrangements between the U.S. government and the EU member states. The EU Council of Transport Ministers (the Council) must approve the agreement by unanimous vote. The Council is scheduled to consider the matter at its next meeting in late March 2007. The proposed U.S./EU agreement is based on the U.S. open skies model and would authorize U.S. airlines to operate between the United States and any point in the EU and beyond, free from government restrictions on capacity, frequencies and scheduling and provides EU carriers with reciprocal rights in these U.S./EU markets. Currently, only 16 of the 27 EU member states have open skies agreements with the United States. The agreement would authorize all U.S. and EU carriers to operate services between the United States and London Heathrow, thereby adding competition to Uniteds Heathrow operation, although Heathrow is slot and terminal constrained. The proposed agreement would also resolve a legal issue concerning the nationality clauses in the existing bilateral agreements between the United States and the EU member states. The proposed agreement would replace this clause with a community carrier clause that would allow carriers owned and controlled by EU citizens to operate services to the United States from any point in the EU. The proposed agreement would confer a number of additional rights on EU carriers that are designed to redress what the EU considers to be an imbalance between U.S. carrier access to the intra EU market versus EU carrier access to the U.S. domestic market. In particular, EU ownership of more than 50 percent of a U.S. carrier will not be presumed to violate the actual control by U.S. citizens requirement, provided foreign ownership of the voting equity of the U.S. carrier does not exceed the statutory limit of 25 percent. U.S. ownership of EU carriers may not exceed 49.9 percent and the EU may enact legislation restricting US ownership of the voting stock of EU airlines to 25 percent. The agreement also provides EU passenger carriers with the right to operate between the U.S. and a limited number of non EU countries and does not provide reciprocal rights to U.S. carriers. It is uncertain at this early stage what commercial effects these provisions may have. 12 If the Council approves the agreement, it is scheduled to go into effect during the winter season of 2007 with a transition to open skies for Ireland in the summer season of 2008. If the Council does not approve the agreement, the EU Commission may call upon the member states to renounce their existing bilateral agreements with the U.S. or face infringement proceedings. If EU member states renounce their agreements with the U.S., the status of Uniteds existing antitrust immunity with its European partners would be in doubt because the immunity is based upon an open skies agreement between the U.S. and the applicable EU member state. The EU Commission has or is expected to propose important new legislation by the end of 2007 that will also impact the Company. New proposed legislation may officially sanction secondary slot trading, which is a current practice among carriers that involves the sale, purchase or lease of slots. If adopted, that legislation should resolve disputes about the legality of slot exchanges at EU airports and permit carriers to continue with this longstanding practice. In addition, on December 20, 2006, the EU Commission proposed legislation to include aviation within the EUs existing emissions trading scheme. If adopted, such a measure could add significantly to the costs of operating in Europe. The precise cost to United will depend upon the terms of the legislation enacted, which would determine whether United will be forced to buy emission allowances and the cost at which these allowances may be obtained. Pursuant to an agreement reached in December 2005, a full open skies agreement between the United States and Canada is likely to take effect in early 2007. The DOT is expected to finalize its tentative decision from December 2006 approving Uniteds proposed 9 party antitrust immunity application (including United, Air Canada, Lufthansa, SAS, Austrian, Swiss, LOT, TAP and bmi). At that time, United and Air Canada will be permitted to expand their existing antitrust immunity beyond the currently allowed transborder region. Environmental Regulation. The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils, and waste materials. New regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (such as carbon dioxide) are being considered for promulgation both internationally and within the United States. United will be carefully evaluating the potential impact of such proposed regulations. Other areas of developing regulations include the State of California rule makings regarding air emissions from ground support equipment and a federal rule making concerning the discharge of deicing fluid. The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials, and owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities, and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse affect on the Companys business. Employees As of December 31, 2006, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 55,000 active employees, of whom approximately 81% were represented by various U.S. labor organizations. 13 As of December 31, 2006, the employee groups, number of employees and labor organization for each of Uniteds collective bargaining groups were as follows: Employee Group Number of Employees Union(1) Contract Open for Amendment Public Contact/Ramp & Stores/Food Service Employees/Security Officers/Maintenance Instructors/Fleet Technical Instructors 17,203 IAM January 1, 2010 Flight Attendants 14,920 AFA January 8, 2010 Pilots 6,439 ALPA January 1, 2010 Mechanics & Related 5,524 AMFA January 1, 2010 Engineers 255 IFPTE January 1, 2010 Dispatchers 167 PAFCA January 1, 2010 (1) International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), Association of Flight Attendants Communication Workers of America (AFA), Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA), International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE) and Professional Airline Flight Control Association (PAFCA). Collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) are negotiated under the RLA, which governs labor relations in the air transportation industry, and such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date. Instead, they specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered open for amendment. Before the amendable date, neither party is required to agree to modifications to the bargaining agreement. Nevertheless, nothing prevents the parties from agreeing to start negotiations or to modify the agreement in advance of the amendable date. Contracts remain in effect while new agreements are negotiated. During the negotiating period, both the Company and the negotiating union are required to maintain the status quo. 14 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the Companys business and the forward looking statements contained in this report and other statements the Company or its representatives make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Companys business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward looking statements are made in this report. Risks Related to the Companys Business Continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the Companys operating results. The Companys operating results have been and continue to be significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of aircraft fuel. Previous record high fuel prices increased substantially in 2006 as compared to 2005. At times, United has not been able to increase its fares when fuel prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, and it may not be able to do so in the future. Although the Company is currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. In addition, from time to time the Company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. The Companys ability to hedge in the future, however, may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. Additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected the Companys financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry generally. Among the effects experienced from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the FAA imposed temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industrys fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger mile (yield). Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. The war in Iraq and additional international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Companys financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or an increase in post war unrest in Iraq or other international hostilities involving the United States. The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting. The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources or lower cost structures than United does, or both. In recent years, the market share held by LCCs has increased significantly. Large network carriers, like United, have often had a lack of pricing power within domestic markets. In addition, U.S. Airways, Northwest, Delta and several small U.S. competitors have recently reorganized or are currently reorganizing under bankruptcy protection. Other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the Company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. 15 From time to time the U.S. airline industry has undergone consolidation, as in the recent merger of U.S. Airways and America West, and may experience additional consolidation in the future. United routinely monitors changes in the competitive landscape and engages in analysis and discussions regarding its strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and business combinations. If other airlines participate in merger activity, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of United. Additional security requirements may increase the Companys costs and decrease its traffic. Since September 11, 2001, the DHS and the TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. In addition, foreign governments have also begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports United serves. A substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the Companys costs and or reducing its revenue. Security measures imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments after September 11, 2001 have increased Uniteds costs and may further adversely affect the Company and its financial results. Additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and or to recover associated costs in the future may result in similar adverse effects. Extensive government regulation could increase the Companys operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. In addition to the enactment of the Aviation Security Act, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. The FAA from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures by the Company. The Company expects to continue incurring material expenses to comply with the regulations of the FAA and other agencies. United operates under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT. If the DOT altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked Uniteds certificate, it could have a material adverse effect on its business. The FAA can also limit Uniteds airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to such facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the Companys business. Many aspects of Uniteds operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments, or the International Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry are uncertain at this time, but the impact to the Company and its industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. United currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers, capacity, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. If an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related intangible assets. 16 Further, the Companys operations in foreign countries are subject to various laws and regulations in those countries. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. The Companys results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. The Companys results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control delays and general economic conditions. As a result, the Companys quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. The Companys financial condition and results of operations may be further affected by the future resolution of bankruptcy related contingencies. Despite the Companys exit from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006, several significant matters remain to be resolved in connection with its reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business. For additional detail regarding these matters, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce costs, and increase its revenues may not be adequate or successful. The Company continues to identify and implement continuous improvement programs to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues. Some of these efforts are focused on cost savings in such areas as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials, aircraft ground handling and regional affiliates. A number of the Companys ongoing initiatives involve significant changes to the Companys business that it may be unable to implement successfully. The adequacy and ultimate success of the Companys programs and initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues cannot be assured. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor related disruptions may adversely affect the Companys operations. Approximately 81% of the employees of UAL are represented for collective bargaining purposes by U.S. labor unions. These employees are organized into six labor groups represented by six different unions. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the RLA. Under the RLA, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new CBA or the parties are released to self help by the National Mediation Board. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes, shortly after release by the National Mediation Board carriers and unions are free to engage in self help measures such as strikes and lock outs. All of the Companys U.S. labor agreements become amendable in January 2010. There is also a risk that dissatisfied employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow downs, work stoppages, partial work 17 stoppages, sick outs or other actions short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and impair its financial performance. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Companys operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Accordingly, the Companys insurance costs increased significantly and its ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. The Company has obtained third party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if it had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. Should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. If any of Uniteds aircraft were to be involved in an accident, the Company could be exposed to significant liability. The insurance it carries to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. If the Companys insurance is not adequate, it may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. The Company relies heavily on automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure of these systems could harm its business. The Company depends on automated systems to operate its business, including its computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including united.com. Uniteds website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information, as well as process critical financial transactions. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of Uniteds services versus its competitors and materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights. The Companys business relies extensively on third party providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in the Companys relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the Company, could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company has engaged a growing number of third party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, such as operation of United Express flights, operation of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. The Company does not directly control these third party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company. The failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce the Companys revenues and increase its expenses or prevent United from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. In addition, the Companys business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. 18 The Companys high level of fixed obligations could limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. The Company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including the Amended Credit Facility, aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. In addition, as of February 2, 2007, the Company had pledged all of its available assets as collateral to secure its various fixed obligations, except for certain aircraft and related parts with an estimated current market value of approximately $2.5 billion. The Companys high level of fixed obligations or a downgrade in the Companys credit ratings could impair its ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and reduce its flexibility to conduct its business. Certain of the Companys existing indebtedness also requires it to meet covenants and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. See Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. A failure to timely pay its debts or other material uncured breach of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the Companys indebtedness, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the Companys operations and financial condition. In such a situation, it is unlikely that the Company would be able to fulfill its obligations to repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise cover its fixed costs. The Companys net operating loss carry forward may be limited. The Company has a net operating loss (NOL) carry forward of approximately $2.7 billion for federal and state income tax purposes that primarily originated before UALs emergence from bankruptcy and will expire over a five to twenty year period. This tax benefit is mostly attributable to federal NOL carry forwards of $7.0 billion. If the Company were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, under current conditions, its annual federal NOL utilization could be limited to an amount equal to its market capitalization at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long term tax exempt rate. To avoid a potential adverse effect on the Companys ability to utilize its NOL carry forward for federal income tax purposes after the Effective Date, the Companys certificate of incorporation contains a 5% Ownership Limitation, applicable to all stockholders except the PBGC. The 5% Ownership Limitation remains effective until February 1, 2011. While the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (which ownership change would materially and adversely affect the Companys ability to utilize its NOL carry forward or other tax attributes), no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the Companys substantial NOL carry forward and other federal income tax attributes would be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. The Company has identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting associated with tax accounting as of December 31, 2006 that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in its financial statements in future periods. Based on an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, our management has concluded that such internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of such date due to the existence of a deficiency in the operation of our internal accounting controls, which constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. While the controls were properly designed and did not result in a material misstatement, they did not operate effectively to ensure proper accounting and disclosure of income taxes. The Company has suffered from high management attrition during its reorganization. The material weakness was primarily related to high staff turnover in the tax department. 19 As defined in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2, a material weakness is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of a Companys annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Because of this material weakness, there is a risk that a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements may not be prevented or detected. The Company has taken and will continue to take whatever steps are necessary to remediate the material weakness, including the hiring of staff, use of external advisors, as well as implementing a more rigorous review process of tax accounting and disclosure matters. We cannot guarantee, however, that such remediation efforts will correct the material weakness such that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. In the event that we do not adequately remedy this material weakness, or if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in future periods, our access to capital could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. The Company is a global business with operations outside of the United States from which it derives approximately one third of its operating revenues. The Companys operations in Asia, Latin America, Middle East and Europe are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the Companys operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. In addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions may have a material adverse impact upon the Companys liquidity, revenues, costs, or operating results. The loss of skilled employees upon whom the Company depends to operate its business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. The Company may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect its business. The Company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. An outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or avian flu, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain provisions of the Companys governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors of the Company. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of UAL (the Governance Documents) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Companys board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. Certain provisions of the Governance Documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the Companys board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of UAL and its stockholders. These provisions of the Governance Documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of the Companys stockholders interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of the Company to negotiate 20 with the board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Risks Related to the Companys Common Stock The Companys common stock has a limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. Because the Companys common stock began trading on the NASDAQ National Market on February 2, 2006, there is limited trading history. The market price of its common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control. The issuance of additional shares of the Companys common stock, including upon conversion of its convertible preferred stock and its convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. In connection with the Companys emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Company issued 5,000,000 shares of 2% convertible preferred stock. This preferred stock may be converted into shares of the Companys common stock upon the earlier of February 1, 2008, or upon a fundamental change or change in control of the Company. Further, the preferred stock is mandatorily convertible 15 years from the issuance date. The Company also issued approximately $150 million in convertible 5% notes shortly after the Effective Date, and subsequently issued approximately $726 million in convertible 4.5% notes on July 25, 2006. Holders of these securities may convert them into shares of the Companys common stock according to their terms. If the holders of the convertible preferred stock or the holders of the convertible notes were to exercise their rights to convert their securities into common stock, it could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. For further information, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations and Note 11 Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. In certain circumstances, the Company can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of the Companys stockholders. The board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over the Companys common stock with respect to dividends or if the Company liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. If the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. The Company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. In the future the Company may decide to raise capital through offerings of its common stock, securities convertible into its common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders equity interests in the Company. Issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Companys common stock and the Company cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 21 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. Flight Equipment Details of UALs mainline operating fleet as of December 31, 2006 are provided in the following table: Aircraft Type Average No. of Seats Owned Leased Total Average Age (Years) A319 100 120 33 22 55 7 A320 200 148 42 55 97 9 B737 300 123 15 49 64 18 B737 500 108 30 30 15 B747 400 347 18 12 30 11 B757 200 172 45 52 97 15 B767 300 213 17 18 35 12 B777 200 267 46 6 52 8 Total Operating Fleet 246 214 460 12 As of December 31, 2006, all of the aircraft owned by UAL were encumbered under debt agreements. The amendment of the Credit Facility, creating the Amended Credit Facility on February 2, 2007, enabled the Company to remove 101 aircraft from the Amended Credit Facility collateral pool. For additional information on aircraft financings see Note 11, Debt Obligations and Note 16, Lease Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Ground Facilities United has entered into various leases relating to its use of airport landing areas, gates, hangar sites, terminal buildings and other airport facilities in most of the municipalities it serves. These leases were subject to assumption or rejection under the Chapter 11 process. As of December 31, 2006, United had assumed major facility leases in Washington (Dulles and Reagan), Denver (terminal lease only), San Francisco, Newark (terminal lease only), Austin, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit (terminal lease only), Las Vegas, Oakland, Portland, Fort Meyers (fuel system lease only), Orange County and Tucson. Major facility leases expire at San Francisco in 2011 and 2013, Washington Dulles in 2014, Chicago OHare in 2018, Los Angeles in 2021 and Denver in 2025. The Company owns a 66.5 acre complex in suburban Chicago consisting of more than 1 million square feet of office space for its former world headquarters, a computer facility and a training center. United also owns a flight training center, located in Denver, which accommodates 36 flight simulators and more than 90 computer based training stations. The Company owns a limited number of other properties, including a reservations facility in Denver and a crew hotel in Honolulu. All of these facilities are mortgaged. Beginning in March 2007, the Company will move approximately 350 management employees, including its senior management, to its new headquarters in downtown Chicago. The Companys new corporate headquarters will be located at 77 West Wacker Drive, where the Company leases approximately 137,000 square feet of office space. The Companys former world headquarters, located in suburban Elk Grove Township, will become the Operations Center. Consistent with the Companys goals of achieving additional cost savings and operational efficiencies, the Company will relocate employees from several of its other suburban Chicago facilities into the new Operations Center. The Companys Maintenance Operation Center at San Francisco International Airport occupies 130 acres of land, 2.9 million square feet of floor space and 9 aircraft hangar bays under a lease expiring in 2013. 22 Uniteds off airport leased properties historically included a number of ticketing, sales and general office facilities in the downtown and suburban areas of most of the larger cities within the United system. As part of the Companys restructuring and cost containment efforts, United closed, terminated or rejected all of its former domestic city ticket office leases. United continues to lease and operate a number of administrative, reservations, sales and other support facilities worldwide. United also continues to evaluate opportunities to reduce space requirements at its airports and off airport locations. 23 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. In re: UAL Corporation, et. al. As discussed above, on the Petition Date the Debtors filed voluntary petitions to reorganize their businesses under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. On October 20, 2005, the Debtors filed the Debtors First Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and the Disclosure Statement. The Bankruptcy Court approved the Disclosure Statement on October 21, 2005. Commencing on October 27, 2005, the Disclosure Statement, ballots for voting to accept or reject the proposed plan of reorganization and other solicitation documents were distributed to all classes of creditors eligible to vote on the proposed plan of reorganization. After a hearing on confirmation, on January 20, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Plan of Reorganization. The Plan of Reorganization became effective and the Debtors emerged from bankruptcy protection on the Effective Date. Numerous pre petition claims still await resolution in the Bankruptcy Court due to the Companys objections to either the existence of liability or the amount of the claim. The process of determining whether liability exists and liquidating the amounts due is likely to continue through 2007. Additionally, certain significant matters remain to be resolved in the Bankruptcy Court. For details see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Air Cargo/Passenger Surcharge Investigations In February 2006, the European Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice commenced an international investigation into what government officials describe as a possible price fixing conspiracy relating to certain surcharges included in tariffs for carrying air cargo. In June 2006, United received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice requesting information related to certain passenger pricing practices and surcharges applicable to international passenger routes. The Company is cooperating fully. United is considered a source of information for the investigation, not a target. In addition to the federal grand jury investigation, United and other air cargo carriers have been named as defendants in over ninety class action lawsuits alleging civil damages as a result of the purported air cargo pricing conspiracy. Those lawsuits have been consolidated for pretrial activities in the United States Federal Court for the Eastern District of New York. United has entered into an agreement with the majority of the private plaintiffs to dismiss United from the class action lawsuits in return for an agreement to cooperate with the plaintiffs factual investigation. More than fifty additional putative class actions have also been filed alleging violations of the antitrust laws with respect to passenger pricing practices. Those lawsuits have been consolidated for pretrial activities in the United States Federal Court for the Northern District of California (Federal Court). United has entered a settlement agreement with a number of the plaintiffs in the passenger pricing cases to dismiss United from the class action lawsuits in return for an agreement to cooperate with the plaintiffs factual investigation. The settlement agreement is subject to review and approval by the Federal Court. Penalties for violating competition laws can be severe, involving both criminal and civil liability. The Company is cooperating with the grand jury investigations while carrying out its own internal review of its pricing practices, and is not in a position to evaluate the potential financial impact of this litigation at this time. However, a finding that the Company violated either U.S. antitrust laws or the competition laws of some other jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on the Company. 24 Summers v. UAL Corporation ESOP, et. al. Certain participants in the UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) sued the ESOP, the ESOP Committee and State Street Bank and Trust Company (State Street) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the District Court) in February 2003 seeking monetary damages in a purported class action that alleges that the ESOP Committee breached its fiduciary duty by not selling UAL stock held by the ESOP commencing as of July 19, 2001. The ESOP Committee appointed State Street in September 2002 to act as investment manager and fiduciary to manage the assets of the ESOP itself. In August 2005, a proposed settlement was reached between the plaintiffs and the ESOP Committee defendants. The agreed upon settlement amount is to be paid out of the $5.2 million in insurance proceeds remaining after deducting legal fees. State Street objected to the agreement during the required fairness hearing before the District Court. The Court nevertheless approved the settlement in October 2005, but also granted State Streets motion for summary judgment, dismissing the underlying claims. Both sides appealed from the District Courts decision, and as a result, no settlement funds have been disbursed pending a ruling on appeal. In June 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Court of Appeals) affirmed the lower courts ruling dismissing the claims against State Street and in effect rendering State Streets challenge to the settlement agreement moot. Both parties requested the United States Supreme Court (Supreme Court) to review the decision of the Court of Appeals. On February 20, 2007, the Supreme Court declined both parties requests to review the Court of Appeals decision, bringing this dispute to a final conclusion and foreclosing any potential claim for indemnity against the Company. Litigation Associated with September 11 Terrorism Families of 94 victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks filed lawsuits asserting a variety of claims against the airline industry. United and American Airlines, as the two carriers whose flights were hijacked, are the central focus of the litigation, but a variety of additional parties have been sued on a number of legal theories ranging from collective responsibility for airport screening and security systems that allegedly failed to prevent the attacks to faulty design and construction of the World Trade Center towers. In excess of 97% of the families of the deceased victims received awards from the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund of 2001, which was established by the federal government, and consequently are now barred from making further claims against the airlines. World Trade Center Properties, Inc. and The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey have filed cross claims in the wrongful death litigation against all of the aviation defendants as owners of the World Trade Center property for property damage sustained in the attacks. The insurers of various tenants at the World Trade Center have filed subrogation claims for damages as well. In the aggregate, September 11th claims are estimated to be well in excess of $10 billion. By statute, these matters were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, and airline exposure was capped at the limit of the liability coverage maintained by each carrier at the time of the attacks. In the personal injury and wrongful death matters, settlement discussions continue and the parties have reached settlements in several matters. The Company anticipates that any liability it may face arising from the events of September 11, 2001 could be significant, but will be subject to the statutory limitation to the amount of its insurance coverage. Environmental Proceedings In accordance with an order issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board in June 1999, United, along with most of the other tenants of the San Francisco International Airport, has been investigating potential environmental contamination at the airport (geographically including Uniteds San Francisco maintenance center) and conducting monitoring and or remediation when needed. Uniteds projected costs associated with this order were significantly reduced in 2006; therefore, the Company does not consider this to be a material proceeding. 25 United recently completed negotiations with the Bay Area Air Quality Management District regarding notices of violations received at its San Francisco maintenance center and payment of associated penalties. Internal Revenue Service Matter In 1999, UAL Corporation entered into a restructuring of its risk management function for retiree medical benefits in an attempt to control the spiraling costs of medical care. As part of the redesign of this function, UAL partnered with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois Health Care Service Corporation. Upon audit of UALs 1999 federal income tax return, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) took the position that this restructuring was the same as, or substantially similar to, a listed tax shelter transaction. The IRS proposed a penalty for gross valuation misstatement under Section 6662(h)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code in the amount of approximately $16 million. The settlement of the issue resulted in a penalty payment by UAL in 2006 in the amount of approximately $2 million. Other Legal Proceedings UAL and United are involved in various other claims and legal actions involving passengers, customers, suppliers, employees and government agencies arising in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, from time to time, the Company becomes aware of potential non compliance with applicable environmental regulations, which have either been identified by the Company (through internal compliance programs such as its environmental compliance audits) or through notice from a governmental entity. In some instances, these matters could potentially become the subject of an administrative or judicial proceeding and could potentially involve monetary sanctions. After considering a number of factors, including (but not limited to) the views of legal counsel, the nature of contingencies to which the Company is subject and prior experience, management believes that the ultimate disposition of these contingencies will not materially affect its consolidated financial position or results of operations. 26 ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. None. 27 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of the Company and United are listed below, along with their ages as of December 31, 2006, tenure as officer, and business background for at least the last five years. Jane Allen. Age 55. Ms. Allen has been Senior Vice President Human Resources of United (air transportation) since May 2006. From June 2003 to May 2006, Ms. Allen served as Senior Vice President of Onboard Services for United. Before joining United, Ms. Allen served as the head of American Airlines Flight Services (air transportation) from 1997 to 2003. Graham W. Atkinson. Age 55. Mr. Atkinson has been Executive Vice President Chief Customer Officer for United since September 2006. From January 2004 to September 2006, Mr. Atkinson served as Senior Vice President Worldwide Sales and Alliances for United. From June 2001 to January 2004, Mr. Atkinson served as Senior Vice President International for United. Frederic F. Brace. Age 49. Mr. Brace has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and United since August 2002. From September 2001 to August 2002, Mr. Brace served as the Company and Uniteds Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Sara A. Fields. Age 63. Ms. Fields has been Senior Vice President Office of the Chairman of United since May 2006. From December 2002 to May 2006, Ms. Fields served as Senior Vice President People of United. From January to December 2002, Ms. Fields served as Uniteds Senior Vice President People Services and Engagement. From July 1994July 2002, Ms. Fields previously served as Senior Vice President Onboard Service of United. Gerald F. Kelly. Age 59. Mr. Kelly has been Senior Vice President Continuous Improvement, Strategic Sourcing and Chief Information Officer (CIO) of United since November 2005. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Kelly served as CIO and Senior Vice President for Procurement and Continuous Improvement at Sears, Roebuck & Co. (retailer), from which he retired in April 2005. From 2001 to 2002, Mr. Kelly served as Business Advisor to Williams Sonoma (retailer). Paul R. Lovejoy. Age 52. Mr. Lovejoy has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company and United since June 2003. From September 1999 to June 2003, Mr. Lovejoy was a partner with Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP (law firm). Peter D. McDonald. Age 55. Mr. McDonald has been Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and United since May 2004. From September 2002 to May 2004, Mr. McDonald served as Executive Vice President Operations of the Company and United. From January to September 2002, Mr. McDonald served as Uniteds Senior Vice President Airport Operations. From May 2001 to January 2002, Mr. McDonald served as Uniteds Senior Vice President Airport Services. Rosemary Moore. Age 56. Ms. Moore has been the Senior Vice President Corporate and Government Affairs of United since December 2002. From November to December 2002, Ms. Moore was the Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs of United. From October 2001 to October 2002, Ms. Moore was the Vice President Public and Government Affairs of ChevronTexaco Corporation (global energy). John P. Tague. Age 44. Mr. Tague has been Executive Vice President Chief Revenue Officer of the Company and United since April 2006. From May 2004 to April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President Marketing, Sales and Revenue of the Company and United. From May 2003 to May 2004, Mr. Tague was Executive Vice President Customer of the Company and United. From 1997 to August 2002, Mr. Tague was the President and Chief Executive Officer of ATA Holdings Corp. (air transportation). Glenn F. Tilton. Age 58. Mr. Tilton has been Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and United since September 2002. From October 2001 to August 2002, Mr. Tilton served as 28 Vice Chairman of ChevronTexaco Corporation (global energy). Previously, Mr. Tilton served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Texaco Inc. (global energy), a position he assumed in February 2001. There are no family relationships among the executive officers or the directors of the Company. The executive officers are elected by the Board each year, and hold office until the organization meeting of the Board in the next subsequent year and until his or her successor is chosen or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. 29 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Shares of UAL Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately before the Effective Date (the Old Common Stock) traded on the over the counter market (OTCBB) under the symbol UALAQ.OB from April 3, 2003 to February 1, 2006. On February 1, 2006, the Old Common Stock was canceled pursuant to the terms of the Plan of Reorganization and the Company has no continuing obligations under the Old Common Stock. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, the Company issued or reserved for issuance up to 125,000,000 shares of common stock (the New Common Stock) comprised of: (a) 115,000,000 shares to be distributed to unsecured creditors and employees in accordance with the terms of the Plan of Reorganization; (b) up to 9,825,000 shares and options (or other rights to acquire shares) pursuant to the terms of the MEIP; and (c) up to 175,000 shares and options (or other rights to acquire shares) pursuant to the terms of the DEIP. Beginning February 2, 2006, the New Common Stock has traded on a NASDAQ market under the symbol UAUA. The following table sets forth the ranges of high and low sales prices per share of the Old Common Stock and New Common Stock during the last two completed fiscal years. Old Common Stock New Common Stock High Low High Low 2006: 1st quarter $ 1.18 $ 0.02 $ 43.00 $ 29.51 2nd quarter (a) (a) 40.05 26.02 3rd quarter (a) (a) 32.17 21.90 4th quarter (a) (a) 46.54 26.77 2005: 1st quarter $ 1.51 $ 0.89 (b) (b) 2nd quarter 2.40 0.92 (b) (b) 3rd quarter 1.62 0.32 (b) (b) 4th quarter 1.35 0.49 (b) (b) (a) The Old Common Stock was canceled pursuant to the terms of the Plan of Reorganization and no further trading occurred after February 1, 2006. (b) The New Common Stock commenced trading on February 2, 2006. The Company suspended the payment of cash dividends on the Old Common Stock in 2002 and does not currently anticipate paying dividends on the New Common Stock. Additionally, under the provisions of the Amended Credit Facility the Companys ability to pay dividends on or repurchase New Common Stock is restricted. See Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to dividend restrictions under the Amended Credit Facility. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors, subject to applicable limitations under Delaware law. Based on reports by the Companys transfer agent for the New Common Stock, there were approximately 1,200 record holders of its New Common Stock as of February 28, 2007. The following graph shows the cumulative total shareholder return for the New Common Stock during the period from February 2, 2006 to December 31, 2006. Five year historical data is not presented as a result of the significant period the Company was in bankruptcy and since the financial results of the Successor Company are not comparable with the results of the Predecessor Company, as discussed in. 30 The graph also shows the cumulative returns of the S&P 500 Index and the AMEX Airline Index (AAI) of eleven investor owned airlines. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 2, 2006 (the date UAUA began trading on NASDAQ) in New Common Stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all dividends paid were reinvested. Performance Graph Note: The stock price performance shown in the graph above should not be considered indicative of potential future stock price performance. Common stock repurchases in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 were as follows: Period Total number of shares purchased(a) Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum number of shares (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs 10/01/06 10/31/06 $ (b) 11/01/06 11/30/06 2,195 38.80 (b) 12/01/06 12/31/06 767 41.09 (b) Total 2,962 $ 39.40 (b) (a) Shares withheld from employees to satisfy certain tax obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock. (b) The MEIP provides for the withholding of shares to satisfy tax obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock. The MEIP does not specify a maximum number of shares that may be repurchased. 31 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. In connection with its emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Company adopted fresh start reporting in accordance with SOP 90 7 and in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). As a result of the adoption of fresh start reporting, the financial statements prior to February 1, 2006 are not comparable with the financial statements after February 1, 2006. References to Successor Company refer to UAL on or after February 1, 2006, after giving effect to the adoption of fresh start reporting. References to Predecessor Company refer to UAL prior to February 1, 2006. Successor Predecessor Period from February 1 to December 31, Period from January 1 to January 31, Year Ended December 31, (In millions, except rates) 2006 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Income Statement Data: Operating revenues $ 17,882 $ 1,458 $ 17,379 $ 16,391 $ 14,928 $ 15,822 Operating expenses 17,383 1,510 17,598 17,245 16,288 18,659 Fuel expenses mainline 4,462 362 4,032 2,943 2,072 1,921 Reorganization (income) expense (22,934 ) 20,601 611 1,173 10 Net income (loss)(a) 25 22,851 (21,176 ) (1,721 ) (2,808 ) (3,212 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share 0.14 (196.61 ) (182.29 ) (15.25 ) (27.36 ) (53.55 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share 0.14 (196.61 ) (182.29 ) (15.25 ) (27.36 ) (53.55 ) Cash dividends declared per common share Balance Sheet Data at period end: Total assets $ 25,369 $ 19,555 $ 19,342 $ 20,705 $ 21,979 $ 23,656 Long term debt and capital lease obligations, including current portion 10,600 1,432 1,433 1,204 852 700 Liabilities subject to compromise 36,336 35,016 16,035 13,964 13,833 Mainline Operating Statistics(b): RPMs 117,470 (b) 114,272 115,198 104,464 109,460 ASMs 143,095 (b) 140,300 145,361 136,630 148,827 Passenger load factor 82.1 % (b) 81.4 % 79.2 % 76.5 % 73.5 % Yield(c) 12.19 (b) 11.25 10.83 10.79 11.06 Passenger revenue per ASM (PRASM) 10.04 (b) 9.20 8.63 8.32 8.19 Operating revenue per ASM (RASM)(d) 11.49 (b) 10.66 9.95 9.81 9.77 Operating expense per ASM (CASM)(e) 11.23 (b) 10.59 10.20 10.52 11.45 Fuel gallons consumed 2,290 (b) 2,250 2,349 2,202 2,458 Average price per gallon of jet fuel, including tax and hedge impact 210.7 (b) 179.2 125.3 94.1 78.2 (a) Net income (loss) was significantly impacted in the Predecessor Company periods due to the reorganization items related to the Companys restructuring in bankruptcy. (b) Mainline operations exclude the operations of independent regional carriers operating as United Express. Statistics included in the Successor period were calculated using the combined results of the Successor period from February 1 to December 31, 2006 and the Predecessor January 2006 period. (c) Yield is mainline passenger revenue excluding industry and employee discounted fares per RPM. (d) RASM is operating revenues excluding United Express passenger revenue per ASM. (e) CASM is operating expenses excluding United Express operating expenses per ASM. 32 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Overview As discussed further in Item 1. Business, the Company derives virtually all of its revenues from airline related activities. The most significant source of airline revenues is passenger revenues; however, Mileage Plus, United Cargo, and United Services are also significant sources of operating revenues. The airline industry is highly competitive, and is characterized by intense price competition. Fare discounting by Uniteds competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Companys financial results because it is generally required to match competitors fares to maintain passenger traffic. Future competitive fare adjustments may negatively impact the Companys future financial results. The Companys most significant operating expense is jet fuel. Jet fuel prices are extremely volatile and are largely uncontrollable by the Company. UALs historical and future earnings have been and will continue to be significantly impacted by jet fuel prices. The impact of recent jet fuel price increases is discussed below. The Companys results in 2006 were significantly impacted by the adoption of fresh start reporting upon its emergence from bankruptcy. See the Fresh Start Reporting section below for a discussion of the of the significant fresh start items that impacted the Companys earnings in 2006. Bankruptcy Matters. On December 9, 2002, UAL, United and 26 direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions to reorganize its business under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Court. The Company emerged from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006, under a Plan of Reorganization that was approved by the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with its emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Company adopted fresh start reporting, which resulted in significant changes in post emergence financial statements, as compared to UALs historical financial statements, as is further discussed in the Financial Results section below. Also, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1. Business for further information regarding bankruptcy matters. Recent Developments. The Company believes its restructuring has made the Company competitive with its network airline peers. The Companys financial performance has continued to improve despite significant increases in fuel prices, as noted below. Average mainline unit fuel expense has increased 68% from 2004 to 2006, which has negatively impacted the Companys operating margin. However, the Company has been able to overcome rising fuel costs through its restructuring accomplishments, improved revenues and other means, which have contributed to the generation of operating income of $447 million in calendar year 2006, as compared to operating losses of $219 million and $854 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. United seeks to continuously improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce unit costs, and increase unit revenues. Together with these initiatives, some of the Companys more significant recent developments are noted as follows: In February 2007, the Company prepaid $972 million of Credit Facility debt and amended certain terms of the Credit Facility. The Amended Credit Facility requires significantly less collateral as compared to the Credit Facility and is expected to provide net interest expense savings of approximately $70 million annually. This amount represents the net impact of reduced interest expense and interest income as a result of lower cash and debt balances, as well as a more favorable interest rate on the Amended Credit Facility. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, below, and Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to this new facility. In 2006, the Company announced a program to reduce then projected 2007 expenses by $400 million. The Company has identified specific programs to realize these savings, and continues 33 to identify and evaluate other savings opportunities. For example, the Company expects to reduce costs by approximately $200 million through savings in such areas as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials and aircraft ground handling. The Company also expects to reduce advertising and marketing costs by as much as $60 million. Increased operational efficiencies, through the implementation of such initiatives as a new flight planning system and reduced block times are expected to generate approximately $40 million in savings. In addition, the Company estimates it will achieve a $100 million reduction in general and administrative expenses, which includes a reduction of salaried and management positions. The Company realized approximately $135 million of the projected $400 million of 2007 cost reductions in 2006, and is on track to achieve $265 million of projected cost savings in 2007. In the second quarter of 2006, the General Services Administration (GSA) awarded its annual U.S. government employee travel contracts for its upcoming fiscal year beginning October 1, 2006. The GSA selected United to provide certain air transportation services for which the estimated annual revenue to United will be approximately $540 million, or 27.4% of the total estimated GSA employee travel award. This award level represents a 6.7 point increase over the prior contract year. Effective September 2006, United began charging travel agents within North America a $3.50 per passenger segment fee if low cost booking channels are not used. In 2006, United also renegotiated its agreements with four major GDS providers to allow access to low cost booking options for Uniteds appointed travel agencies. Increased use of low cost booking channels is expected to reduce Uniteds product distribution expenses. In the third quarter of 2006, United announced the addition of 22 new flights from Washington Dulles, which increased departures from Dulles by 14 percent in the fall of 2006 as compared to the fall of 2005. In early 2007, the DOT awarded United the route between Washington Dulles Beijing and this nonstop service will commence on March 28, 2007. The Company plans to reallocate existing aircraft to serve this new route. The Company continues to identify and implement continuous improvement programs, and is actively training key employees in continuous improvement strategies and techniques. These include such initiatives as optimization of aircraft and airport facilities and selected outsourcing of activities to more cost effective service providers. The Company expects that these programs, as well as the aforementioned expense reduction programs, will produce economic benefits which will be necessary to mitigate inflationary cost pressures in other categories of operating expenses, such as airport usage fees, aircraft maintenance, and employee healthcare benefits, among others. Financial Results. Upon UALs emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Company adopted fresh start reporting in accordance with SOP 90 7. Thus, the consolidated financial statements before February 1, 2006 reflect results based upon the historical cost basis of the Company while the post emergence consolidated financial statements reflect the new basis of accounting, which incorporates fair value adjustments recorded from the application of SOP 90 7. Therefore, financial statements for the post emergence periods are not comparable to the pre emergence period financial statements. The adoption of fresh start reporting had a significantly negative impact on the Companys results of operations. The significant differences in accounting results are discussed under Fresh Start Reporting, below. For purposes of providing managements year over year discussions of UALs financial condition and results of operations, management has compared the combined 2006 annual results consisting of the Successor Companys results for the eleven months ended December 31, 2006 and the Predecessor Companys January 2006 results, to the Predecessor Companys annual 2005 and 2004 results. References to Successor Company refer to UAL on or after February 1, 2006, after giving effect to the adoption of fresh start reporting. References to Predecessor Company refer to UAL before its exit from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006. 34 The table below presents a reconciliation of the Companys net income (loss) to net income (loss), excluding reorganization items for the three years ended December 31, 2006. Presentation of results for the combined twelve month period of 2006, as described in the preceding paragraph, and the presentation of net income excluding reorganization items, are non GAAP measures. However, the Company believes that these year over year comparisons of the results of operations, as shown in the table below, provide management and investors a useful perspective of the Companys core business and on going operational and financial performance and trends, since reorganization items pertain to accounting for the effects of the bankruptcy restructuring and are not recurring. In addition, the combined twelve month period of 2006 is presented to improve comparability with the full years of 2005 and 2004. Combined Predecessor Predecessor Successor Twelve Twelve Twelve (In millions) Period from January 1 to January 31, Period from February 1 to December 31, Months Ended December 31, Months Ended December 31, Months Ended December 31, 2006 2006 2006(a) 2005 2004 Net income (loss) $ 22,851 $ 25 $ 22,876 $ (21,176 ) $ (1,721 ) Reorganization items, net (22,934 ) (22,934 ) 20,601 611 Net income (loss), excluding reorganization items, net $ (83 ) $ 25 $ (58 ) $ (575 ) $ (1,110 ) (a) The combined period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). The Companys improved results of operations in 2006, as compared with 2005 and 2004, were influenced by a number of significant factors, including fresh start reporting and other factors that are described below. Fresh Start Reporting. Under fresh start reporting at the Effective Date, the Companys asset values were remeasured using fair value, and were allocated in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141). The excess of reorganization value over the net fair value of tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. In addition, fresh start accounting also requires that all assets and liabilities be stated at fair value or at the present values of the amounts to be paid using appropriate market interest rates, except for deferred taxes, which are accounted for in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). The Companys results in 2006 were significantly impacted by fresh start reporting and other non cash expenses; the most significant impacts are discussed below. As part of fresh start reporting the Company changed its accounting for Mileage Plus from the incremental cost model to the deferred revenue model. Under the incremental cost method, the estimated liability was based on incremental costs and adjustments were made to both operating revenues and advertising expense. Under the deferred revenue model a portion of ticket revenue from Mileage Plus members, and other qualifying mileage transactions, is allocated to deferred revenue at fair value to reflect the Companys obligation for future award redemptions. This change in accounting negatively impacted the Companys operating revenues by approximately $158 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The negative revenue impact was partially offset by a reduction in advertising expense of approximately $27 million which the Company estimates would have been recorded if the incremental cost method had been continued. Mileage Plus accounting is discussed further in Critical Accounting Policies, below. 35 The Company recorded non cash share based compensation expense of $159 million in 2006 in association with its MEIP and DEIP plans as approved under the Plan of Reorganization. This expense was not recognized in 2005 and 2004, because prior to 2006 the Company accounted for its share based compensation plans under the intrinsic method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. In 2006, the Company recognized non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $74 million on assets that were recorded at fair value as part of fresh start reporting, including definite lived intangible assets that were recognized under fresh start accounting. UAL did not recognize similar asset values or related amortization expense in the preceding annual periods. The adjustment of the Companys postretirement plan liabilities to fair value at fresh start resulted in the elimination of unrecognized prior service credits and actuarial losses for its non pension postretirement plan. The elimination of these unrecognized items negatively impacted the Companys 2006 expenses by approximately $51 million. Aircraft rent was negatively impacted by approximately $101 million. This included an unfavorable impact of $66 million related to deferred gains on pre emergence sale leaseback transactions that were eliminated as part of fresh start reporting. Before fresh start reporting, these deferred gains were being amortized into earnings over the lease terms as a reduction of the related aircraft rent expense. Also due to the restructuring of aircraft financings in bankruptcy, the Companys operating leases were at average rates below market value; therefore, a deferred charge was recorded to adjust these leases to fair value. Amortization of this deferred charge resulted in additional rent expense of approximately $35 million in 2006. The Company recognized additional non cash interest expense of approximately $51 million for the amortization of debt and capital lease obligation discounts that were recorded upon its emergence from bankruptcy to adjust its debt and capital lease obligations to fair value. At UALs emergence from bankruptcy, there were certain unresolved matters which are considered to be preconfirmation contingencies. The Company initially recorded an obligation for its best estimate of the amounts it expected to pay to resolve these matters. Adjustments to these initial estimates are recorded in current results of operations. The most significant of these were classified as Special items in the Companys 2006 Statement of Consolidated Operations and include a net benefit of $12 million related to the San Francisco International Airport (SFO) and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) municipal bond obligations and a benefit of $24 million related to the termination of certain of the Companys non qualified pension plans. The Company adjusted its estimated liabilities for these preconfirmation contingencies during the eleven months ended December 31, 2006 to the amounts the Company now believes to be probable based on court rulings and other updated information. In addition to the special items previously noted, other accruals and accrual adjustments provided an additional net benefit of approximately $29 million to 2006 operating expenses. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Claims Resolution Process, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these adjustments. Other Factors. Operating revenues increased $2.0 billion, or 11%, in 2006 as compared to 2005 and by $2.9 billion, or 18%, in 2006 as compared to 2004. Revenues increased in 2006 and 2005 largely due to passenger revenue growth from Uniteds improved worldwide airline network performance and a more healthy revenue environment for United and the airline industry, which was significantly aided by constrained industry capacity growth during these periods. However, Uniteds passenger revenue growth rate has slowed in the latter part of 2006, with the 2006 fourth quarter operating 36 revenues increasing 5% over the same quarter in 2005, as compared to a growth rate of 10% in the fourth quarter of 2005 over the same quarter in 2004. Fourth quarter revenues in 2006 were also negatively impacted by severe winter storms in Denver and Chicago, as discussed below. These revenues were also adversely affected by Mileage Plus accounting in 2006 as discussed above. United Express contributed $77 million to operating income in 2006 as compared to negative contributions to operating results of $317 million in 2005 and $494 million in 2004. This improvement is due to an improved regional operations cost structure resulting from the bankruptcy reorganization, network optimization similar to that achieved for the mainline operation, and the replacement of some 50 seat regional jets with 70 seat regional jets providing both first class and Economy Plus service, among other factors. Mainline fuel costs have significantly trended upward since 2004, increasing by $792 million between 2005 and 2006, and by $1.9 billion between 2004 and 2006. These increases are primarily due to significant increases in market prices for jet fuel. The Companys average cost per gallon for jet fuel, including taxes and hedge impacts, increased from approximately $1.25 in 2004, to $1.79 in 2005, and to $2.11 in 2006. Similar increases were experienced in the average cost per gallon of jet fuel for United Express between periods, which is classified as Regional affiliates expense in the Statements of Consolidated Operations. Aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs expense increased $128 million, or 15%, in 2006 as compared to 2005, and by $262 million, or 35%, in 2006 as compared to 2004. As further discussed in the Results of Operations section below, these increases are due to several factors, including higher volumes of outsourced maintenance, increased rates under certain long term maintenance contracts and aging engines within Uniteds fleet. Interest expense increased $288 million in 2006 as compared to 2005, and by $321 million as compared to 2004, primarily due to increased debt outstanding of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the Companys new capital structure resulting from its emergence from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006 and the fresh start reporting adjustments discussed above. The increased interest expense was partially offset by increased interest income of $211 million in 2006, as compared to 2005. The Predecessor Company included $6 million and $60 million of interest income in reorganization items, net in accordance with SOP 90 7, for January 2006 and calendar year 2005, respectively. The January 2006 reorganization income of approximately $22.9 billion primarily relates to the discharge of liabilities and other fresh start adjustments recorded in connection with the Companys implementation of the Plan of Reorganization preparatory to its emergence from bankruptcy. In 2005, the reorganization charges of approximately $20.6 billion were primarily for pension, employee related, and aircraft claim charges of $8.9 billion, $6.5 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. For additional information, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Financial Statement Presentation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had total cash, including restricted cash and short term investments, of $5.0 billion. The Companys strong cash position resulted from its recapitalization upon emergence from bankruptcy, together with strong operating cash flows of $1.6 billion in 2006, as compared to $1.1 billion in 2005 and $0.1 billion in 2004. As noted above, in February 2007, the Company reduced its cash by approximately $1.0 billion to a level that it believes is more optimal for its capital structure. The cash was used to prepay a portion of the Companys Credit Facility, which accordingly reduced debt by $972 million. As part of this transaction, the Company entered into the Amended Credit Facility consisting of an amended and restated revolving credit, term loan and guaranty agreement of $2.1 billion. 37 The Company has significant contractual cash payment obligations associated with debt, aircraft leases and aircraft purchase commitments, among others. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, below, for further information related to the Amended Credit Facility and the Companys contractual obligations. Contingencies. During the course of its Chapter 11 proceedings, the Company successfully reached settlements with most of its creditors and resolved most pending claims against the Debtors. The following discussion provides a summary of the material matters yet to be resolved in the Bankruptcy Court, as well as other contingencies. For further information on these matters, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations and Note 15, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Municipal Bond Obligations. The Company is a party to numerous long term agreements to lease certain airport and maintenance facilities that are financed through tax exempt municipal bonds issued by various local municipalities to build or improve airport and maintenance facilities. As a result of the Companys bankruptcy filing, United was not permitted to make payments on unsecured pre petition debt. The Company had been advised that these municipal bonds may have been unsecured (or in certain instances, partially secured) pre petition debt. Therefore, through the bankruptcy process, the Company either settled or rejected certain pre petition debt associated with the municipal bonds. In 2006, certain of the Companys municipal bond obligations relating to JFK, LAX and SFO have been conclusively adjudicated through the Bankruptcy Court as financings and not true leases, while the bonds relating to Denver International Airport (DEN) have been conclusively adjudicated as a true lease. The Company has guaranteed $261 million of the DEN bonds as discussed in Capital Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements below. There remains pending litigation to determine the value of the security interests, if any, that the bondholders at LAX and SFO have in the underlying UAL leaseholds. Pension Benefit Terminations. In June 2006, the District Court entered an order approving the termination of the United Airlines Pilot Defined Benefit Pension Plan (Pilot Plan). ALPA, United Retired Pilots Benefit Protection Association (URPBPA) and the PBGC each filed appeals with the Court of Appeals. On October 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Courts order approving the termination of the Pilot Plan effective December 30, 2004. Both ALPA and URPBPA have filed petitions for writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has yet to rule on either petition. If the termination order is ultimately reversed by the Supreme Court and it results in the reversal of the termination of one or more of the Companys previously defined benefit pension plans, it could have a materially adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. There is also a dispute with respect to the continuing obligation of United to pay non qualified pension benefits to retired pilots pending settlement of the involuntary termination proceeding. On October 6, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the Company was obligated to make payment of all non qualified pension benefits for October 2005. During the first quarter of 2006, the District Court dismissed the Companys appeal of the Bankruptcy Courts October 6, 2005 order in light of its earlier decision reversing the Bankruptcy Courts termination order. On October 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals reversed the District Courts order dismissing for lack of ripeness the Companys appeal of the Bankruptcy Courts October 6, 2005 order and remanded the case with instructions to reverse the Bankruptcy Courts order compelling payment of non qualified benefits for October 2005. On November 6, 2006, ALPA filed a petition for rehearing on the Court of Appeals reversal of the October 6, 2005 order. Both ALPA and URPBPA filed petitions for writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court on this issue. The Supreme Court has yet to rule on either petition. 38 In March 2006, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the Company was obligated to make payment of all pilot non qualified pension benefits for the months of November and December 2005 and January 2006. The Bankruptcy Court also ruled that the Companys obligation to pay pilot non qualified pension benefits ceased as of January 31, 2006. The Company filed a notice of appeal of the Bankruptcy Courts ruling to the District Court. URPBPA and ALPA also filed notices of appeal with respect to the Bankruptcy Courts order, which were subsequently consolidated with the Companys appeal. United agreed with URPBPA and ALPA to pay into an escrow account the disputed non qualified pension benefits for the months of November and December 2005 and January 2006, an aggregate amount totaling approximately $17 million. The District Court affirmed the Bankruptcy Courts ruling in September 2006. The Company filed a notice of appeal of the District Courts ruling to the Court of Appeals. URPBPA and ALPA also appealed the District Courts decision. The Company subsequently filed a motion to consolidate its appeal from the Bankruptcy Courts October 2005 non qualified benefits order with the three appeals from the Bankruptcy Courts March 2006 non qualified benefits order. The Court of Appeals denied the Companys motion, but issued an order staying briefing on the March 2006 non qualified benefits order until further order of the Court of Appeals. In light of the Court of Appeals October 25, 2006 decision described above, the Company is reasonably optimistic of a successful outcome of its appeal in this matter, although there can be no assurances that the ultimate outcome of this appeal will be favorable to the Company. Legal and Environmental. UAL has certain contingencies resulting from litigation and claims (including environmental issues) incident to the ordinary course of business. Management believes, after considering a number of factors, including (but not limited to) the views of legal counsel, the nature of contingencies to which the Company is subject and prior experience, that the ultimate disposition of these contingencies will not materially affect the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. When appropriate, the Company accrues for these matters based on its assessments of the likely outcomes of their eventual disposition. The amounts of these liabilities could increase or decrease in the near term, based on revisions to estimates relating to the various claims. New regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (such as carbon dioxide) are being considered for promulgation both internationally and within the United States. The Company will be carefully evaluating the potential impact of such proposed regulations. The Company anticipates that if ultimately found liable, its damages from claims arising from the events of September 11, 2001, could be significant; however, the Company believes that, under the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act of 2001, its liability will be limited to its insurance coverage. Results of Operations As described in the Overview section above, presentation of the combined twelve month period of 2006 is a non GAAP measure; however, management believes it is useful for comparison with the full years of 2005 and 2004. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Companys operations can be adversely impacted by severe weather and its first and fourth quarter results normally reflect lower travel demand. Historically, because of these seasonal factors, results of operations are better in the second and third quarters. Earnings from operations increased $666 million to $447 million in 2006 as compared to a loss from operations of $219 million in 2005. Excluding reorganization items, the net loss was $58 million in 2006 which represents an improvement of $517 million over the net loss in 2005 of $575 million. These improvements are due to the net impact of the items discussed below, among other factors. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Financial Statement Presentation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on reorganization items. 39 Operating Revenues. 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table illustrates the year over year dollar and percentage changes in major categories of operating revenues. Predecessor Successor Combined Predecessor Period from January 1 to January 31, Period from February 1 to December 31, Period Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, $ % (Dollars in millions) 2006 2006 2006(a) 2005 Change Change Operating revenues: Passenger United Airlines $ 1,074 $ 13,293 $ 14,367 $ 12,914 $ 1,453 11 Passenger Regional Affiliates 204 2,697 2,901 2,429 472 19 Cargo 56 694 750 729 21 3 Other operating revenues 124 1,198 1,322 1,307 15 1 $ 1,458 $ 17,882 $ 19,340 $ 17,379 $ 1,961 11 (a) The combined 2006 period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). Strong demand, industry capacity restraint, yield improvements, Uniteds resource optimization initiatives, and ongoing airline network optimization all contributed to a $2.0 billion increase in total operating revenue to $19.3 billion in 2006. The 11% mainline passenger revenue increase was due to both increased traffic and higher average ticket prices; United reported a 3% increase in mainline traffic on a 2% increase in capacity and an 8% increase in yield. Severe winter storms in December 2006 at the Chicago and Denver hubs, which resulted in the cancellation of approximately 3,900 United and United Express flights at these locations, had the estimated impact of reducing revenue by $40 million and reducing total expenses by $11 million. As discussed in Critical Accounting Policies, below, the Company changed the accounting for its frequent flyer obligation to a deferred revenue model upon its emergence from bankruptcy which negatively impacted revenues by $158 million. This resulted in increased deferred revenue due to a net increase in miles earned by Mileage Plus customers that will be redeemed in future years. The 19% increase in regional affiliate revenues was also due to traffic and yield improvements as indicated in the table below. The increase in cargo revenue was primarily due to improved yield, which was partially due to higher fuel surcharges between periods. The table below presents selected passenger revenues and operating data by geographic region and the Companys mainline and United Express segments expressed as period to period changes: 2006 North America Pacific Atlantic Latin Mainline United Express Consolidated Increase (decrease) from 2005(a): Passenger revenues (in millions) $ 1,022 $ 234 $ 118 $ 79 $ 1,453 $ 472 $ 1,925 Passenger revenues 13% 9% 6% 19% 11% 19% 13% ASMs 4% % (2)% 9% 2% 9% 3% RPMs 4% 1% (2)% 13% 3% 13% 4% Load factor (percent) 0.3 pts 1.4 pts 0.7 pts 2.6 pts 0.7 pts 2.7 pts 0.8 pts Yield(b) 9% 8% 9% 6% 8% 6% 9% (a) The combined 2006 period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). (b) Yields exclude charter revenue and revenue passenger miles. 40 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table illustrates the year over year dollar and percentage changes in major categories of operating revenues. (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 $ Change % Change Operating revenues: Passenger United Airlines $ 12,914 $ 12,542 $ 372 3 Passenger Regional Affiliates 2,429 1,931 498 26 Cargo 729 704 25 4 Other operating revenues 1,307 1,214 93 8 Total $ 17,379 $ 16,391 $ 988 6 The table below presents selected passenger revenues and operating data by geographic region and the Companys mainline and United Express segments expressed as period to period changes: 2005 North America Pacific Atlantic Latin Mainline United Express Consolidated Increase (decrease) from 2004: Passenger revenues (in millions) $ (153) $ 364 $ 101 $ 60 $ 372 $ 498 $ 870 Passenger revenues (2)% 16% 6% 16% 3% 26% 6% ASMs (10)% 13% 1% 16% (3)% 21% (2)% RPMs (6)% 12% 1% 16% (1)% 23% 1% Load factor 3.7 pts (0.9) pts 0.1 pts 0.1 pts 2.2 pts 1.0 pts 2.0 pts Yield(a) 5% 4% 7% (2)% 4% 3% 5% (a) Yields exclude charter revenue and revenue passenger miles. Consolidated operating revenues increased $988 million, or 6%, in 2005 as compared to 2004 and mainline RASM increased 7% from 9.95 cents to 10.66 cents. Mainline passenger revenues increased $372 million, or 3%, due to a 4% increase in yield slightly offset by a decline in RPMs of 1%. ASMs decreased 3%; however, passenger load factor increased 2.2 points to 81.4%. Passenger revenues Regional Affiliates increased $498 million, or 26%, in 2005 as compared to 2004 mainly due to increased volume of United Express regional carrier flying. Cargo revenues increased $25 million, or 4%, in 2005 as compared to 2004 due to a 1% increase in cargo ton miles combined with a 2% increase in cargo yield. Other operating revenues increased $93 million, or 8%, primarily due to increases in third party maintenance revenues and ULS revenues, partially offset by a decrease in United Airlines Fuel Corporation (UAFC) fuel sales to third parties. 41 Operating Expenses. 2006 Compared to 2005 The table below includes the year over year dollar and percentage changes in operating expenses. Significant fluctuations are discussed below. Predecessor Successor Combined Predecessor (Dollars in millions) Period from January 1 to January 31, 2006 Period from February 1 to December 31, 2006 Period Ended December 31, 2006(a) Year Ended December 31, 2005 $ Change % Change Operating expenses: Aircraft fuel $ 362 $ 4,462 $ 4,824 $ 4,032 $ 792 20 Salaries and related costs 358 3,909 4,267 4,027 240 6 Regional affiliates 228 2,596 2,824 2,746 78 3 Purchased services 134 1,595 1,729 1,524 205 14 Aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs 80 929 1,009 881 128 15 Depreciation and amortization 68 820 888 856 32 4 Landing fees and other rent 75 801 876 915 (39 ) (4 ) Cost of third party sales 65 614 679 685 (6 ) (1 ) Aircraft rent 30 385 415 402 13 3 Commissions 24 291 315 305 10 3 Special operating items (Note 19) (36 ) (36 ) 18 (54 ) Other operating expenses 86 1,017 1,103 1,207 (104 ) (9 ) $ 1,510 $ 17,383 $ 18,893 $ 17,598 $ 1,295 7 (a) The combined period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). In 2006, United implemented a resource optimization initiative that increased the number of mainline ASMs by 1% and United Express ASMs by 3%, for a consolidated ASM impact of 2%, without the use of additional aircraft. In addition to generating increased revenue, this contributed to additional variable expenses such as fuel, salaries, and other expense items. Higher fuel costs have had a significantly adverse effect on the Companys operating expenses in 2006 as compared to 2005. In 2006, mainline aircraft fuel expense increased 20% due to an increase in average mainline fuel cost from $1.79 per gallon in 2005 to $2.11 per gallon in 2006, while fuel consumption increased 2% on a similar increase in mainline capacity. The Company recognized a net fuel hedge loss of $26 million in aircraft fuel expense in 2006, which is included in the $2.11 per gallon average cost, whereas in 2005 most fuel hedging gains and losses were recorded in non operating income and expense. In 2005, the Company recorded $40 million of fuel hedging gains in non operating income, as discussed below. Salaries and related costs increased $240 million, or 6%, in 2006 as compared to the prior year. In 2006 the Company recorded $159 million of expense, representing 4% of the increase in salaries and related costs, for the Successor Companys share based compensation plans because of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006. In addition, the Company incurred an additional $26 million related to employee performance incentive programs in 2006 as compared to 2005. The Company also recorded $64 million in higher postretirement expenses and $35 million in higher medical and dental expenses in 2006 than in 2005. Salaries also increased due to merit increases awarded to employees in 2006, which were infrequent throughout bankruptcy. These cost increases were partially offset by a 6% year over year improvement in 42 labor productivity resulting from the Companys continuous improvement efforts, together with selective outsourcing of certain non core functions. In 2006, the Company achieved its goal to reduce 1,000 management and administrative positions. The Companys most significant regional affiliate expenses are capacity payments to the regional carriers and fuel expense. Fuel accounted for 30% of the Companys regional affiliate expense in 2006, as compared to 26% in 2005. Fuel cost increased due to increased market prices for jet fuel, as discussed above, and increased fuel consumption from higher capacity. The Companys regional affiliate expense increased only 3% despite a 9% increase in capacity due to the benefits of restructured lower cost regional carrier capacity agreements in 2006 along with regional carrier network optimization and the replacement of some 50 seat regional jets with 70 seat regional jets. The 3% increase in regional affiliates expense includes an 18% increase in fuel costs. See Note 2(i), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies United Express, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Regional affiliates expense. Purchased services increased $205 million, or 14%, in 2006, as compared to 2005, primarily due to an increase of approximately $120 million in outsourcing costs for various non core work activities; a $31 million increase in certain professional fees, which were classified as reorganization expenses by the Predecessor Company; and a $24 million increase in credit card fees due to higher passenger revenues. The offsetting benefits of higher outsourcing costs are reflected in a 4% reduction in manpower associated with the 6% labor productivity improvement noted for salaries and related costs. In 2006, aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs expense increased $128 million, or 15%, from 2005 primarily due to engine related maintenance rate increases as well as increased volume. As discussed in Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Fresh Start Reporting, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company revalued its assets and liabilities to estimated fair values. In 2006, amortization expense increased $162 million due to the recognition of $453 million of additional definite lived intangible assets; however, this increase was offset by decreased depreciation expense from fresh start reporting adjustments that significantly reduced depreciable tangible asset book values to fair value. The impact of the decrease in tangible asset valuation was significant as depreciation and amortization only increased $32 million despite the $162 million increase in intangible asset amortization and incremental depreciation on post emergence property additions. Other operating expense decreased $104 million in 2006, as compared to 2005. The adoption of fresh start reporting, which included the revaluation of the Companys frequent flyer obligation to estimated fair value and the change in accounting policy to a deferred revenue model for the Successor Company reduced other expense by $27 million. For periods on or after February 1, 2006, adjustments to the frequent flyer obligation are recorded to passenger and other operating revenues, whereas periodic adjustments under the Predecessor Companys incremental cost basis were recognized in both operating revenues and other operating expense. See Critical Accounting Policies, below, for further details. Various cost savings initiatives also reduced the Companys costs in 2006 as compared to 2005. In 2006, the Company recognized a net benefit of approximately $36 million to operating expense resulting from the resolution of preconfirmation contingencies for the estimated liability for SFO and LAX municipal bond obligations, and favorable adjustments to preconfirmation contingencies related to the pilots non qualified pension plan. In 2005, the Company recognized a charge of $18 million for aircraft impairments related to the planned accelerated retirement of certain aircraft. See Note 19, Special Items, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 43 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table presents the year over year dollar and percentage changes in operating expenses for the Predecessor Company in 2005 as compared to 2004. (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 $ Change % Change Operating expenses: Aircraft fuel $ 4,032 $ 2,943 $ 1,089 37 Salaries and related costs 4,027 5,006 (979 ) (20 ) Regional affiliates 2,746 2,425 321 13 Purchased services 1,524 1,462 62 4 Aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs 915 964 (49 ) (5 ) Depreciation and amortization 881 747 134 18 Landing fees and other rent 856 874 (18 ) (2 ) Cost of third party sales 685 709 (24 ) (3 ) Aircraft rent 402 533 (131 ) (25 ) Commissions 305 305 Special operating items (Note 19) 18 18 Other operating expenses 1,207 1,277 (70 ) (5 ) $ 17,598 $ 17,245 $ 353 2 Overall, operating expense increased only 2% in 2005 from 2004. The significant changes from 2004 to 2005 included: A $1.1 billion, or 37%, increase in aircraft fuel expense was primarily due to a 43% increase in the average cost of fuel (including tax and hedge impact), partially offset by a 4% decrease in consumption. Salaries and related costs decreased by $1.0 billion, or 20%, primarily due to cost savings associated with lower salaries and benefits as well as lower full time equivalent employees. The decrease in salaries and related costs was driven by wage and benefit concessions resulting from negotiations with employees and productivity improvements. Regional affiliates increased $321 million primarily as a result of increased fuel costs and volumes of United Express regional carrier flying, partially offset by new and amended contract savings. A $134 million increase in aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs resulted primarily from higher levels of purchased maintenance activity. This increase was partially offset by certain productivity and labor rate improvements, the effects of which are reflected in salaries and related costs. A $131 million decrease in aircraft rent was due to the restructuring of aircraft lease obligations and fleet reductions. 44 Other income (expense). 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table illustrates the year over year dollar and percentage changes in consolidated other income (expense). Predecessor Successor Combined Predecessor Period from January 1 to January 31, Period from February 1 to December 31, Period Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31 $ % (Dollars in millions) 2006 2006 2006(a) 2005 Change Change Operating income (expense): Interest expense $ (42 ) $ (728 ) $ (770 ) $ (482 ) $ (288 ) (60 ) Interest income 6 243 249 38 211 555 Interest capitalized 15 15 (3 ) 18 Miscellaneous, net 14 14 87 (73 ) (84 ) $ (36 ) $ (456 ) $ (492 ) $ (360 ) $ (132 ) (37 ) The Company incurred a $288 million increase in interest expense, which was partly due to the higher outstanding principal balance of the Credit Facility for the Successor Company, as compared to the lower DIP Financing balance for the Predecessor Company. Interest expense in 2006 was also unfavorably impacted by the associated amortization of various discounts which were recorded on debt instruments and capital leases to record these obligations at fair value upon the adoption of fresh start reporting. Interest income increased $211 million year over year, reflecting a higher cash balance in 2006, as well as higher rates of return on certain investments. Interest income also increased due to the classification of most interest income in 2005 as reorganization expense in accordance with SOP 90 7. In 2005, the Company recorded $40 million of fuel hedge gains which did not qualify for hedge accounting in non operating income, while in 2006 the $26 million net realized and unrealized loss from economic fuel hedges was recognized in aircraft fuel expense. 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table presents year over year dollar and percentage changes in consolidated other income (expense) for the Predecessor Company in 2005 as compared to 2004. (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 $ Change % Change Operating income (expense): Interest expense $ (482 ) $ (449 ) $ (33 ) (7 ) Interest income 38 25 13 52 Interest capitalized (3 ) 1 (4 ) Gain on sale of investments (Note 7) 158 (158 ) Non operating special items (Note 19) 5 (5 ) Miscellaneous, net 87 (1 ) 88 $ (360 ) $ (261 ) $ (99 ) (38 ) The Company reported a gain of $158 million from the sale of its investment in Orbitz in 2004. In addition, an increase in interest expense of $33 million, or 7%, in 2005 was due to higher interest and fees applicable to the increased outstanding debt on the DIP Financing between periods. The Company recorded $40 million of fuel hedge gains in Miscellaneous, net in 2005 since they did not qualify for hedge accounting. There were no significant fuel hedge gains or losses included in Miscellaneous, net in 2004. In 45 2005, the other significant item that was included in Miscellaneous, net was approximately $25 million of foreign currency transaction gains from the revaluation of certain foreign currency denominated debt and pension obligations. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Financial Statement Presentation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Reorganization items, net. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity. UALs total of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short term investments was $5.0 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, including restricted cash of $847 million and $957 million, respectively. At December 31, 2006, the Company reclassified $972 million of its long term debt to current maturities to reflect its intent to prepay a portion of the Credit Facility. In February 2007, the Company reduced its cash position by $972 million through the prepayment of part of its Credit Facility debt. This debt prepayment reduced the Companys cash balance to a level that it believes is more optimal. In addition, certain terms of the Credit Facility were amended in February 2007. The Amended Credit Facility consists of a $1.8 billion term loan and a $255 million revolving commitment. At the Companys option, interest payments are based on either a base rate, as defined in the Amended Credit Facility, or at LIBOR plus 2%. This applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans is a significant reduction of 1.75% from the Credit Facility. The Amended Credit Facility frees up a significant amount of assets that had been pledged as collateral under the Credit Facility. See the Capital Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section, below, for information related to scheduled maturities on the Amended Credit Facility. In January 2007, the Company decided to terminate the interest rate swap that had been used to hedge the future interest payments under the original Credit Facility term loan of $2.45 billion. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company expects to expense approximately $16 million of deferred financing costs related to the prepaid portion of the Credit Facility. Restricted cash primarily represents cash collateral to secure workers compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process Uniteds credit card ticket sales. Certain of the credit card processing arrangements are based on the aggregate then outstanding bank card air traffic liability, the Companys credit rating and its compliance with certain debt covenants. Credit rating downgrades or debt covenant noncompliance could materially increase the Companys reserve requirements. Cash Flows from Operating Activities. 2006 compared to 2005 The Company generated cash from operations of $1.6 billion in 2006 compared to $1.1 billion in 2005. The higher operating cash flow generated in 2006 was due to improved results of operations as discussed above in the Results of Operation section, together with differences in the timing and amount of working capital items, and other smaller changes. As discussed in the Fresh Start Reporting section, above, UALs 2006 net income includes significant non cash items. The Company does not have any significant defined benefit pension plan contribution requirements as most of the Company sponsored plans were replaced with defined contribution plans upon its emergence from bankruptcy. The Company contributed approximately $259 million and $11 million to its defined contribution plans and non U.S. pension plans, respectively, in the eleven months ended December 31, 2006. 46 2005 compared to 2004 For the year ended December 31, 2005, UAL generated cash from operations of $1.1 billion, a $980 million increase over cash generated from operations of $99 million in 2004. The higher operating cash generated in 2005 was largely due to improved results of operations, together with increased advanced ticket sales and differences in amounts and timing of other working capital changes. The Company contributed $127 million towards its U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2004, but made no such cash contributions in 2006 or 2005. The Company contributed $61 million and $75 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, largely towards its non U.S. pension plans and its U.S. non qualified pension plans. Detailed information regarding the Companys pension plans is included in Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Investing Activities. 2006 Compared to 2005 Cash used by investing activities was $250 million in 2006 as compared to $291 million in 2005. Cash released from segregated funds after exit from bankruptcy in 2006 provided $200 million in cash proceeds, and the sale of the subsidiary MyPoints.com, Inc. in 2006 generated an additional $56 million in cash proceeds. Cash used for increases in short term investments in 2006 was $235 million, as compared to $1 million provided from the sale of short term investments in 2005. A reduction in restricted cash balances provided $110 million of cash proceeds in 2006, as compared to cash used to increase restricted cash of $80 million in 2005. Required restricted cash balances in 2006 have decreased slightly from 2005 as a result of the Companys emergence from bankruptcy, among other factors. In 2006, the Company did not reject or return any aircraft under Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code, although the sale of nine non operating B767 200 aircraft during this period provided $19 million in cash proceeds from the disposition of property and equipment. The Company used $362 million in cash for the acquisition of property and equipment in 2006, as compared to $470 million in 2005. 2005 Compared to 2004 Overall, cash used in investing activities of $291 million in 2005 was comparable to cash used of $296 million in 2004. The Company sold ten B727, five B737 and seven B767 aircraft and rejected or returned to the financiers 30 B737 aircraft, ten B767 aircraft and one B747 aircraft under Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code in 2005. The Company then reacquired eight of the previously returned B767 aircraft, of which four were purchased by the Company from the Public Debt Group and subsequently sold to a third party and simultaneously leased back, and of which four were acquired directly by a third party from the Public Debt Group and subsequently leased to the Company. In addition, the Company, as part of its agreement with the Public Debt Group, purchased six additional B767 aircraft from the Public Debt Group, which were subsequently sold to and leased back from third parties. During 2004, the Company received $218 million from the sales of its investments in Orbitz and Air Canada, and used $198 million to provide increased cash deposits classified as restricted, and $267 million for the acquisition of property and equipment. 47 Cash Flows from Financing Activities. 2006 Compared to 2005 Cash generated through financing activities was $782 million in 2006 compared to cash used of $110 million in 2005. In 2006, the Company made principal payments under long term debt and capital lease obligations totaling $2.1 billion, which included $1.2 billion for the repayment of the DIP Financing. In 2006, the Company obtained access to up to $3.0 billion in secured exit financing which consisted of a $2.45 billion term loan, a $350 million delayed draw term loan and a $200 million revolving credit line. On the Effective Date, $2.45 billion of the $2.8 billion term loan and the entire revolving credit line was drawn and used to repay the DIP Financing and to make other payments required upon exit from bankruptcy, as well as to provide ongoing liquidity to conduct post reorganization operations. Subsequently, the Company repaid borrowings under the revolving credit line and accessed the remaining $350 million on the delayed draw term loan. For further details on the Credit Facility, see Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a total of $2.8 billion of debt and $63 million in letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. During 2006, the Company secured control of 14 aircraft that were included in the 1997 1 EETC transaction by remitting $281 million to the 1997 1 EETC trustee on behalf of the holders of the Tranche A certificates. The Company subsequently refinanced the 14 aircraft on March 28, 2006 with the $350 million delayed draw term loan provided under the Credit Facility. The 14 aircraft are comprised of four B737 aircraft, two B747 aircraft, four B777 aircraft and four A320 aircraft. Significant 2006 non cash financing and investment activities included the conversion of six B757 aircraft and one B747 aircraft from leased to owned status resulting in additional aircraft assets and debt obligations of $242 million. The Company completed definitive documentation for this transaction in July 2006, as discussed in Note 1 Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, in the first quarter of 2006 the Successor Company completed a transaction that converted certain mortgaged aircraft to capital leases for $137 million. See Note 17, Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows Supplemental Disclosures, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2005 Compared to 2004 Cash used in financing activities was $110 million in 2005 compared to $72 million in 2004. During 2005, the Company made principal payments under long term debt, DIP Financing, and capital lease obligations of $285 million, $16 million, and $94 million, respectively. The total cash used for these payments was $395 million in 2005, as compared to total cash used of $737 million for principal payments under debt and capital lease obligations in 2004. In 2005 as compared to 2004, a decrease of $203 million in proceeds from the DIP financing offset the significant decrease in principal payments. During 2005, the Company made $16 million in principal payments on the DIP Financing. In addition, the Company renegotiated and expanded its DIP Financing facility, allowing it to borrow an additional $310 million during 2005. The amended DIP Financing facility also permitted the Company to make capital expenditures not exceeding $750 million towards aircraft acquisitions, with cash expenditures for such acquisitions not to exceed $300 million. This capital expenditures basket was created primarily to allow the Company to purchase certain aircraft that were controlled by the Public Debt Group, all of which were already in its fleet or had been in its fleet in the recent past. The Company raised $253 million in connection with the subsequent long term financing of ten of the B767 aircraft acquired from the Public Debt Group. Capital Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. UALs business is very capital intensive, requiring significant amounts of capital to fund the acquisition of assets, particularly aircraft. In the past, 48 the Company has funded the acquisition of aircraft through outright purchase, by issuing debt, by entering into capital or operating leases, or through vendor financings. The Company also often enters into long term lease commitments with airports to ensure access to terminal, cargo, maintenance and other required facilities. Following is a summary of the Companys material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006: One year Years Years After (In millions) or less 2 and 3 4 and 5 5 years Total Long term debt, including current portion(a) $ 715 $ 1,443 $ 1,777 $ 5,452 $ 9,387 Interest payments(b) 669 1,190 968 1,324 4,151 Capital lease obligations Mainline(c) 240 470 586 679 1,975 United Express(c) 15 29 25 19 88 Aircraft operating lease obligations Mainline 358 668 610 1,239 2,875 United Express(d) 413 818 738 1,117 3,086 Other operating lease obligations 507 951 859 3,464 5,781 Postretirement obligations(e) 161 321 312 709 1,503 Capital spending commitments(f) 128 76 691 1,577 2,472 Total $ 3,206 $ 5,966 $ 6,566 $ 15,580 $ 31,318 (a) Amounts represent contractual amounts due (the one year or less column does not reflect the $972 million prepayment of the Credit Facility in February 2007, as this was not a contractual obligation at December 31, 2006). (b) Future interest payments on variable rate debt are estimated using estimated future variable rates based on a yield curve, and have not been adjusted for the February 2007 $972 million prepayment of the Credit Facility. (c) Includes non aircraft capital lease payments of $4 million in each of the years 2007 through 2011. United Express payments are all for aircraft. (d) Amounts represent lease payments that are made by United under capacity agreements with the regional carriers who operate these aircraft on Uniteds behalf. (e) Amounts represent postretirement benefit payments, net of subsidy receipts, through 2016. Benefit payments approximate plan contributions as plans are substantially unfunded. Not included in the table above are contributions related to the Companys foreign pension plans. The Company does not have any significant contributions required by government regulations. The Companys expected pension plan contributions for 2007 are $14 million. (f) Amounts are principally for aircraft and exclude advance payments. The Company has the right to cancel its commitments for the purchase of A319 and A320 aircraft; however, such action could cause the forfeiture of $91 million of advance payments. In February 2007, the Company prepaid $972 million on the Credit Facility and amended certain of its terms. This prepayment increases (decreases) the Companys expected debt payments in the table above by $972 million in 2007, $(10) million in each of the years 2008 through 2011 and $(932) million thereafter. The prepayment and amendment of interest rate terms increases (decreases) the Companys total expected interest payments, as reported in the table above, by $(82) million in one year or less, $(252) million in combined years two and three, $(243) million in combined years four and five and $703 million after five years. Interest payments in the after five years period are higher because the Amended Credit Facility matures in 2014 while the Credit Facility would have matured in 2012 based on its original terms. 49 See Note 2(i), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies United Express, Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, Note 11, Debt Obligations, and Note 16, Lease Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of these items. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. An off balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the company, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with the company. The Companys off balance sheet arrangements include operating leases, which are summarized in the contractual obligations table, above, and certain municipal bond obligations as discussed below. Certain municipalities issued municipal bonds on behalf of United to finance the construction of improvements at airport related facilities. The Company also leases facilities at airports where municipal bonds funded at least some of the construction of airport related projects. At December 31, 2006, the Company guaranteed interest and principal payments on $261 million in principal of such bonds that were issued in 1992 and are due in 2032 unless the Company elects not to extend its lease in which case the bonds are due in 2023. The outstanding bonds and related guarantee are not recorded in the Companys Statements of Consolidated Financial Position in accordance with GAAP. The related lease agreement is accounted for as an operating lease, and the related rent expense is recorded on a straight line basis. The annual lease payments through 2023 and the final payment for the principal amount of the bonds are included in the operating lease payments in the contractual obligations table above. For further details, see Note 1 Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations and Note 15, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties Guarantees and Off Balance Sheet Financing, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Fuel Consortia. The Company participates in numerous fuel consortia with other carriers at major airports to reduce the costs of fuel distribution and storage. Interline agreements govern the rights and responsibilities of the consortia members and provide for the allocation of the overall costs to operate the consortia based on usage. The consortia (and in limited cases, the participating carriers) have entered into long term agreements to lease certain airport fuel storage and distribution facilities that are typically financed through tax exempt bonds (either special facilities lease revenue bonds or general airport revenue bonds), issued by various local municipalities. In general, each consortium lease agreement requires the consortium to make lease payments in amounts sufficient to pay the maturing principal and interest payments on the bonds. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $484 million principal amount of such bonds were secured by fuel facility leases at major hubs in which United participates, as to which United and each of the signatory airlines has provided indirect guarantees of the debt. Uniteds exposure is approximately $171 million principal amount of such bonds based on its recent consortia participation. The Companys exposure could increase if the participation of other carriers decreases. The guarantees will expire when the tax exempt bonds are paid in full, which ranges from 2010 to 2028. The Company did not record a liability at the time these indirect guarantees were made. Debt Covenants. The Company was in compliance with the Credit Facility covenants as of December 31, 2006. As part of the amendment to the Credit Facility completed in February 2007, several covenants were amended to provide the Company more flexibility. The Amended Credit Facility contains covenants that will limit the ability of United and the Guarantors to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, create liens, pay dividends on or repurchase stock, make certain types of investments, pay dividends or other payments from Uniteds direct or indirect subsidiaries, enter into transactions with affiliates, sell assets or merge with other companies, modify corporate documents or change lines of business. The Amended Credit Facility also requires compliance with certain financial covenants. Failure to comply with the covenants could result in a default under the Amended Credit 50 Facility unless the Company were to obtain a waiver of, or otherwise mitigate or cure, any such default. Additionally, the Amended Credit Facility contains a cross default provision with respect to other credit arrangements that exceed $50 million. A payment default could result in a termination of the Amended Credit Facility and a requirement to accelerate repayment of all outstanding facility borrowings. The Company believes that the combination of its existing cash and cash flows generated by operations will be adequate to satisfy its projected liquidity needs over the next twelve months. For further details about the Amended Credit Facility and the associated covenants, see Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Future Financing. Substantially all of the Companys unencumbered assets were pledged to the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2006. The Amended Credit Facility allowed the Company to release certain assets with an estimated market value of approximately $2.5 billion from the Credit Facility collateral pool, which are now unencumbered. The Amended Credit Facility does not place any specific restrictions on the Companys ability to issue debt secured by these newly unencumbered assets. In addition, subject to the restrictions of its Amended Credit Facility, the Company could raise additional capital by issuing unsecured debt, equity or equity like securities, monetizing or borrowing against certain assets or refinancing existing obligations to generate net cash proceeds. However, the availability and capacity of these funding sources cannot be assured or predicted. Credit Ratings. As part of its exit from bankruptcy, United and UAL received a corporate credit rating of B (outlook stable) from Standard & Poors and a corporate family rating of B2 (outlook stable) from Moodys Investors Services. These credit ratings are below investment grade levels. Downgrades from these rating levels could restrict the availability and or increase the cost of future financing for the Company. Other Information Foreign Operations. The Companys Statements of Consolidated Financial Position reflect material amounts of intangible assets related to the Companys Pacific and Latin American route authorities, and its hub at Londons Heathrow Airport. See Note 2(k), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Intangibles, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Because operating authorities in international markets are governed by bilateral aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign countries, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies can lead to the alteration or termination of existing air service agreements that could adversely impact, and significantly impair, the value of our international route authorities. Significant changes in such policies could also have a material impact on the Companys operating revenues and expenses and results of operations. See Item 1. Business International Regulation for further information and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures above Market Risk for further information on the Companys foreign currency risks associated with its foreign operations. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are affected by significant judgments and uncertainties which potentially could result in materially different accounting under different assumptions and conditions. The Company has prepared the accompanying financial statements in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policies that impact the preparation of these financial statements. Passenger Revenue Recognition. The value of unused passenger tickets and miscellaneous charge orders (MCOs) is included in current liabilities as advance ticket sales. United records passenger ticket sales as operating revenues when the transportation is provided or when the ticket expires. Non refundable 51 tickets generally expire on the date of the intended flight, unless the date is extended by notification from the customer on or before the intended flight date. Fees charged in association with changes or extensions to non refundable tickets are recorded as passenger revenue at the time the fee is incurred. Change fees related to non refundable tickets are considered a separate transaction from the air transportation because they represent a charge for the Companys additional service to modify a previous reservation. Therefore, the pricing of the change fee and the initial customer reservation are separately determined and represent distinct earnings processes. Refundable tickets expire after one year. MCOs are stored value documents that are either exchanged for a passenger ticket or refunded after issuance. United records an estimate of MCOs that will not be exchanged or refunded as revenue ratably over the validity period based on historical results. Due to complex industry pricing structures, refund and exchange policies, and interline agreements with other airlines, certain amounts are recognized as revenue using estimates both as to the timing of recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized. These estimates are based on the evaluation of actual historical results. Accounting for Long Lived Assets. The Company has $11.5 billion in net book value of operating property and equipment at December 31, 2006. In addition to the original cost of these assets, as adjusted by fresh start reporting at February 1, 2006, their recorded value is impacted by a number of accounting policy elections, including the estimation of useful lives and residual values and, when necessary, the recognition of asset impairment charges. Except for the adoption of fresh start reporting at February 1, 2006, whereby the Company remeasured long lived assets at fair value, it is the Companys policy to record assets acquired, including aircraft, at acquisition cost. Depreciable life is determined through economic analysis, such as reviewing existing fleet plans, obtaining appraisals and comparing estimated lives to other airlines that operate similar fleets. Older generation aircraft are assigned lives that are generally consistent with the experience of United and the practice of other airlines. As aircraft technology has improved, useful life has increased and the Company has generally estimated the lives of those aircraft to be 30 years. Residual values are estimated based on historical experience with regards to the sale of both aircraft and spare parts, and are established in conjunction with the estimated useful lives of the related fleets. Residual values are based on current dollars when the aircraft are acquired and typically reflect asset values that have not reached the end of their physical life. Both depreciable lives and residual values are revised periodically to recognize changes in the Companys fleet plan and other relevant information. A one year increase in the average depreciable life of our aircraft would reduce annual depreciation expense by approximately $19 million. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the Company evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. The Companys policy is to recognize an impairment charge when an assets carrying value exceeds its net undiscounted future cash flows and its fair market value. The amount of the charge is the difference between the assets book value and fair market value (sometimes estimated using appraisals). More often, the Company estimates the undiscounted future cash flows for its various aircraft with financial models used by the Company to make fleet and scheduling decisions. These models utilize projections on passenger yield, fuel costs, labor costs and other relevant factors, many of which require the exercise of significant judgment on the part of management. Changes in these projections may expose the Company to future impairment charges by raising the threshold which future cash flows need to meet. The Company recognized impairment charges on assets held for sale of $5 million in 2006 and $18 million for the early retirement of certain aircraft in 2005. See Note 2(l), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Measurement of Impairments and Note 19, Special Items, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 2(f), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Operating Property and Equipment, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Uniteds policies on accounting for long lived assets. 52 Fresh Start Reporting. In connection with its emergence from Chapter 11 protection as of February 1, 2006, the Company adopted fresh start reporting in accordance with SOP 90 7. Accordingly, UALs assets, liabilities and equity were valued at their respective fair values as of the Effective Date. The excess reorganization value over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities has been reflected as goodwill in the accompanying Statements of Consolidated Financial Position. Fair values of assets and liabilities represent the Companys best estimates based on independent appraisals and valuations and, where the foregoing are not available, industry data and trends and by reference to relevant market rates and transactions. Accordingly, the Company cannot provide assurance that the estimates, assumptions, and values reflected in the asset and liability valuations will be realized, and actual results could vary materially from those estimates. In accordance with SFAS 141, the preliminary measurement and allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities was subject to additional adjustment within one year after emergence from bankruptcy to provide the Company time to complete its valuation of its assets and liabilities. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Fresh Start Reporting, and Note 2(k), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Intangibles in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the fresh start fair value adjustments. To facilitate the calculation of the enterprise value of the Successor Company, a set of financial projections were developed. Based on these financial projections, the equity value was estimated by the Company using various valuation methods, including (i) a comparison of the Company and its projected performance to the market values of comparable companies, (ii) a review and analysis of several recent transactions of companies in similar industries to the Company, and (iii) a calculation of the present value of projected future cash flows using the Companys financial projections. The estimated enterprise value and corresponding equity value are highly dependent upon achieving the future financial results set forth in the projections as well as the realization of certain other assumptions that cannot be guaranteed. The estimated equity value of the Company was calculated to be approximately $1.9 billion. The foregoing estimates and assumptions are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies beyond the reasonable control of the Company. Moreover, the market value of the Companys common stock may differ materially from the fresh start equity valuation. Frequent Flyer Accounting. In accordance with fresh start reporting, the Company revalued its frequent flyer obligation to estimated fair value at the Effective Date, which resulted in a $2.4 billion increase to the frequent flyer obligation. The Successor Company also has elected to change its accounting policy for its Mileage Plus frequent flyer program to a deferred revenue model. The Company believes that accounting for frequent flyer miles using a deferred revenue model is preferable, as it establishes a consistent valuation methodology for both miles earned by frequent flyers and miles sold to non airline business partners. Before the Effective Date, the Predecessor Company had used the historical industry practice of accounting for frequent flyer miles earned on United flights on an incremental cost basis as an accrued liability and as advertising expense, while miles sold to non airline business partners were accounted for on a deferred revenue basis. As of the Effective Date, the deferred revenue value of all frequent flyer miles are measured using equivalent ticket value as described below, and all associated adjustments are made to passenger revenues. The deferred revenue measurement method used to record fair value of the frequent flyer obligation on and after the Effective Date was to allocate an equivalent weighted average ticket value to each outstanding mile, based upon projected redemption patterns for available award choices when such miles are consumed. Such value was estimated assuming redemptions on both United and other participating carriers in the Mileage Plus program, and by estimating the relative proportions of awards to be redeemed by class of service within broad geographic regions of the Companys operations, including North America, Atlantic, Pacific and Latin America. 53 Under the new method of accounting adopted for this program at the Effective Date, the Company reduced operating revenue by approximately $158 million more in the eleven months ended December 31, 2006 to account for the effects of the program as compared to the reduction in revenues that would have been recognized using the Predecessor Companys accounting method. The Companys new accounting policy does not continue the use of the former incremental cost method, which impacted revenues and advertising expense under that prior policy. Assuming the use of the Predecessor Companys accounting for this program, for the eleven months ended December 31, 2006, the Company estimates that it would have recorded approximately $27 million of additional advertising expense. The estimation of the fair value of each award mile requires the use of several significant assumptions, for which significant management judgment is required. For example, management must estimate how many miles are projected to be redeemed on United, versus on other airline partners. Since the equivalent ticket value of miles redeemed on United and on other carriers can vary greatly, this assumption can materially affect the calculation of the weighted average ticket value from period to period. Management must also estimate the expected redemption patterns of Mileage Plus customers, who have a number of different award choices when redeeming their miles, each of which can have materially different estimated fair values. Such choices include different classes of service (first, business and several coach award levels), as well as different flight itineraries, such as domestic and international routings, and different itineraries within domestic and international regions of Uniteds and other participating carriers flight networks. Customer redemption patterns may also be influenced by program changes, which occur from time to time and introduce new award choices, or make material changes to the terms of existing award choices. Management must often estimate the probable impact of such program changes on future customer behavior using limited data, which requires the use of significant judgment. Management uses historical customer redemption patterns as the best single indicator of future redemption behavior in making its estimates, but changes in customer mileage redemption behavior to patterns which are not consistent with historical behavior can result in material changes to deferred revenue balances, and to recognized revenue. Managements estimate of the expected breakage of miles as of the fresh start date, and for recognition of breakage post emergence, also requires significant management judgment. For customer accounts which are inactive for a period of 36 consecutive months, it has been Uniteds policy to cancel all miles contained in those accounts at the end of the 36 month period of inactivity. In early 2007, the Company announced that it is reducing the expiration period from 36 months to 18 months effective December 31, 2007. Under its deferred revenue accounting policy effective in 2006, the Company recognized revenue from breakage of miles by amortizing such estimated breakage over the 36 month expiration period. However, current and future changes to program rules, such as the recent change in the expiration period, and program redemption opportunities can significantly alter customer behavior from historical patterns with respect to inactive accounts. Such changes may result in material changes to the deferred revenue balance, as well as recognized revenues from the program. A hypothetical 1% change in the Companys estimated breakage rate, estimated at 14% annually as of December 31, 2006, has approximately an $18 million effect on the liability. At December 31, 2006, the Companys outstanding number of miles was approximately 508.8 billion. The Company estimates that approximately 438.3 billion of these miles will ultimately be redeemed based on assumptions as of December 31, 2006 and, accordingly, has recorded deferred revenue of $3.7 billion. A hypothetical 1% change in the Companys outstanding number of miles or the weighted average ticket value has approximately a $42 million effect on the liability. These assumptions do not include the impact of reducing the expiration period from 36 months to 18 months. Goodwill and Intangible Assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), the Company applies a fair value based 54 impairment test to the book value of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis and, if certain events or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred, on an interim basis. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position and results of operations in the period of recognition. Upon the implementation of fresh start reporting (see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Fresh Start Reporting, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) the Companys assets, liabilities and equity were valued at their respective fair values. The excess of reorganization value over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities has been reflected as goodwill in the accompanying Statements of Consolidated Financial Position on the Effective Date. As discussed in Note 9, Segment Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the entire goodwill amount of $2.7 billion at December 31, 2006 has been allocated to the mainline reportable segment. In addition, the adoption of fresh start reporting resulted in the recognition of $2.2 billion of indefinite lived intangible assets. SFAS 142 requires that a two step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of the reportable segment to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reportable segment exceeds the carrying value of the net assets of the reportable segment, goodwill is not impaired and the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets of the reportable segment exceeds the fair value of the reportable segment, then the Company must perform the second step to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the Company must record an impairment charge equal to such difference. The Company assessed the fair value of its reportable segments considering both the market and income approaches. Under the market approach, the fair value of the reportable segment is based on quoted market prices and recent transaction values of peer companies. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reportable segment is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The income approach is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future capacity, passenger yield, traffic, operating costs, appropriate discount rates and other relevant factors. The Company performed its annual impairment test for its goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets as of October 1, 2006. To estimate the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets the Company used the market and income approaches, discussed above, and the cost method, which uses the concept of replacement cost as an indicator of fair value. The Company did not identify any impairments in these assets. Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting. The Company accounts for other postretirement benefits using Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS 106) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS 158). For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158, which requires the Company to recognize the difference between plan assets and obligations, or the plans funded status, in its Statements of Consolidated Financial Position. Under these accounting standards, other postretirement benefit expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is generally calculated independently of funding decisions or requirements. The Company has not been required to pre fund its current and future plan obligations resulting in a significant net obligation, as discussed below. The fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2006 was $54 million for the other postretirement benefit plans. The benefit obligation was $2.1 billion for the other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2006. The difference between the plan assets and obligations has been recorded in the Statements of Consolidated Financial Position at December 31, 2006. Detailed information regarding the 55 Companys other postretirement plans, including key assumptions, is included in Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following provides a summary of the methodology to determine the assumptions used in Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The calculation of other postretirement benefit expense and obligations requires the use of a number of assumptions, including the assumed discount rate for measuring future payment obligations and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates were based on the construction of theoretical bond portfolios, adjusted according to the timing of expected cash flows for the Companys future postretirement obligations. A yield curve was developed based on a subset of these bonds (those with yields between the 40th and 90th percentiles). The projected cash flows were matched to this yield curve and a present value developed, which was then calibrated to develop a single equivalent discount rate. The expected return on plan assets is based on an evaluation of the historical behavior of the broad financial markets and the Companys investment portfolio, taking into consideration input from the plans investment consultant and actuary regarding expected long term market conditions and investment management performance. The Company believes that the long term asset allocation on average will approximate the targeted allocation and it regularly reviews the actual asset allocation to periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when appropriate. Other postretirement expense is reduced by the expected return on plan assets, which is measured by assuming that the market related value of plan assets increases at the expected rate of return. The market related value is a calculated value that phases in differences between the expected rate of return and the actual return over a period of five years. Actuarial gains or losses are triggered by changes in assumptions or experience that differ from the original assumptions. Under the applicable accounting standards, those gains and losses are not required to be recognized currently as other postretirement expense, but instead may be deferred as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and amortized into expense over the average remaining service life of the covered active employees. At December 31, 2006, the Company had unrecognized actuarial gains of $120 million for the other postretirement benefit plans recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets. The Company initially recorded a tax valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets in the third quarter of 2002. In recording the valuation allowance, management considered whether it was more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets would be realized. This analysis included consideration of scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, carry back potential and tax planning strategies, in accordance with SFAS 109. At December 31, 2006, our valuation allowance totaled $2.2 billion. See also Note 6, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes. During the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, the Company identified a deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting associated with tax accounting which constituted a material weakness. While the Company had appropriately designed control procedures, high staff turnover caused the Company to poorly execute those control procedures for evaluating and recording its current and deferred income tax provision and related deferred taxes balances. This control deficiency did not result in a material misstatement, but did result in adjustments to the deferred tax assets and liabilities, net operating losses, valuation allowance and footnote disclosures and could have resulted in a misstatement of current and deferred income taxes and related disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements. We have and are continuing to take steps to remediate this material weakness, including the hiring of several tax professionals, as well as implementing a more rigorous review process of tax accounting and disclosure matters. Additional review, evaluation and oversight have been undertaken to ensure our 56 consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, as a result, we have concluded that the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10 K fairly present, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. See also Note 6, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. New Accounting Pronouncements. For detailed information, see Note 2(p), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies New Accounting Pronouncements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Forward Looking Information Certain statements throughout Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report are forward looking and thus reflect the Companys current expectations and beliefs with respect to certain current and future events and financial performance. Such forward looking statements are and will be subject to many risks and uncertainties relating to Uniteds operations and business environment that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in such forward looking statements. Words such as expects, will, plans, anticipates, indicates, believes, forecast, guidance, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Additionally, forward looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as statements which identify uncertainties or trends, discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties, or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. The Companys actual results could differ materially from these forward looking statements due to numerous factors including, without limitation, the following: its ability to comply with the terms of financing arrangements; the costs and availability of financing; its ability to execute its business plan; its ability to realize benefits from its resource optimization efforts and cost reduction initiatives; its ability to utilize its net operating losses; its ability to attract, motivate and or retain key employees; its ability to attract and retain customers; demand for transportation in the markets in which it operates; general economic conditions (including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, crude oil prices, costs of aviation fuel and refining capacity in relevant markets); its ability to cost effectively hedge against increases in the price of aviation fuel; the effects of any hostilities, act of war or terrorist attack; the ability of other air carriers with whom the Company has alliances or partnerships to provide the services contemplated by the respective arrangements with such carriers; the costs and availability of aircraft insurance; the costs associated with security measures and practices; labor costs; competitive pressures on pricing (particularly from lower cost competitors) and on demand; capacity decisions of its competitors; U.S. or foreign governmental legislation, regulation and other actions; its ability to maintain satisfactory labor relations; any disruptions to operations due to any potential actions by its labor groups; weather conditions; and other risks and uncertainties set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10 K, as well as other risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in the reports the Company files with the SEC. Consequently, the forward looking statements should not be regarded as representations or warranties by the Company that such matters will be realized. 57 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks Uniteds exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short term investments. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. Uniteds policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. A portion of Uniteds capital lease obligations ($537 million in equivalent U.S. dollars at December 31, 2006) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose us to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. To hedge against some of this risk, United has placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in those respective currencies. Since unrealized mark to market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, United reduces its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. The fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. The fair value of long term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of future cash flows using a U.S. Treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread. The table below presents information as of December 31, 2006 about certain of the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. 2006 Expected Maturity Dates Fair (Dollars in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Value ASSETS Cash equivalents Fixed rate $ 3,832 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,832 $ 3,832 Avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % Short term investments Fixed rate $ 312 $ $ $ $ $ $ 312 $ 312 Avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % Lease deposits Fixed rate EUR deposits $ 74 $ 132 $ 22 $ 215 $ 14 $ $ 457 $ 454 Accrued interest 13 22 2 23 4 64 Avg. interest rate 5.42 % 4.93 % 4.34 % 6.66 % 4.41 % 6.56 % Fixed rate USD deposits $ $ $ $ 11 $ $ $ 11 $ 19 Accrued interest 7 7 Avg. interest rate 6.49 % 6.49 % LONG TERM DEBT U. S. Dollar denominated Variable rate debt $ 183 $ 238 $ 212 $ 281 $ 205 $ 3,610 $ 4,729 $ 4,695 Avg. interest rate 6.69 % 6.19 % 6.61 % 6.05 % 6.74 % 8.45 % 7.97 % Fixed rate debt $ 532 $ 446 $ 547 $ 660 $ 631 $ 1,842 $ 4,658 4,815 Avg. interest rate 6.52 % 6.55 % 6.53 % 6.53 % 6.47 % 5.74 % 6.21 % In addition to the cash equivalents and short term investments included in the table above, the Company has $341 million of short term restricted cash and $506 million of long term restricted cash at December 31, 2006. As discussed in Note 2(d), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Cash and Cash Equivalents, Short Term Investments and Restricted Cash in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, this cash is being held in restricted accounts for workers compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process Uniteds credit card ticket sales. Due to the short term nature of these cash balances, the carrying values approximate the fair values. The Companys interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. 58 In the first quarter of 2006, United entered into an interest rate swap whereby it fixed the rate of interest on $2.45 billion notional value of floating rate debt at 5.14% plus a fixed credit margin. The swap had a fair value of negative $12 million at December 31, 2006. In January 2007, United terminated the swap. The termination value of the swap was negative $4 million due to an $8 million increase in fair value from December 31, 2006 to the termination date. See Note 14, Financial Instruments and Risk Management Interest Rate Swap, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In February 2007, the Company completed a prepayment of a portion of its Credit Facility debt. This prepayment reduces the Companys variable rate debt maturities in the table above by $972 million ($10 million in each of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and $932 million thereafter). See Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel) United enters into fuel option contracts and futures contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. These contracts are designed to provide protection against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel. The Company may update its hedging strategy in response to changes in market conditions. The fair value of the Companys fuel related derivatives was a negative $2 million at December 31, 2006. These instruments have a maturity of less than one year. Foreign Currency United generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Companys results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency denominated operating revenues and expenses. Despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S. originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the Companys foreign currency denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency denominated operating expense for each currency. Likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S. originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income. The Companys biggest net foreign currency exposures in 2006 were typically for the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Australian dollar, British pound, Korean won, European euro, Hong Kong dollar and Japanese yen. The table below sets forth the Companys net exposure to various currencies for 2006: (In millions) Operating revenue net of operating expense Currency Foreign Currency Value USD Value Canadian dollar 278 $ 245 Chinese renminbi 1,735 218 Australian dollar 163 122 British pound 54 98 Korean won 93,521 98 European euro 77 97 Hong Kong dollar 737 95 Japanese yen 8,459 72 At December 31, 2006, the Company did not have any foreign currency derivative instruments. 59 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Overview As discussed further in Item 1. Business, the Company derives virtually all of its revenues from airline related activities. The most significant source of airline revenues is passenger revenues; however, Mileage Plus, United Cargo, and United Services are also significant sources of operating revenues. The airline industry is highly competitive, and is characterized by intense price competition. Fare discounting by Uniteds competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Companys financial results because it is generally required to match competitors fares to maintain passenger traffic. Future competitive fare adjustments may negatively impact the Companys future financial results. The Companys most significant operating expense is jet fuel. Jet fuel prices are extremely volatile and are largely uncontrollable by the Company. UALs historical and future earnings have been and will continue to be significantly impacted by jet fuel prices. The impact of recent jet fuel price increases is discussed below. The Companys results in 2006 were significantly impacted by the adoption of fresh start reporting upon its emergence from bankruptcy. See the Fresh Start Reporting section below for a discussion of the of the significant fresh start items that impacted the Companys earnings in 2006. Bankruptcy Matters. On December 9, 2002, UAL, United and 26 direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions to reorganize its business under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Court. The Company emerged from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006, under a Plan of Reorganization that was approved by the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with its emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Company adopted fresh start reporting, which resulted in significant changes in post emergence financial statements, as compared to UALs historical financial statements, as is further discussed in the Financial Results section below. Also, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1. Business for further information regarding bankruptcy matters. Recent Developments. The Company believes its restructuring has made the Company competitive with its network airline peers. The Companys financial performance has continued to improve despite significant increases in fuel prices, as noted below. Average mainline unit fuel expense has increased 68% from 2004 to 2006, which has negatively impacted the Companys operating margin. However, the Company has been able to overcome rising fuel costs through its restructuring accomplishments, improved revenues and other means, which have contributed to the generation of operating income of $447 million in calendar year 2006, as compared to operating losses of $219 million and $854 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. United seeks to continuously improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce unit costs, and increase unit revenues. Together with these initiatives, some of the Companys more significant recent developments are noted as follows: In February 2007, the Company prepaid $972 million of Credit Facility debt and amended certain terms of the Credit Facility. The Amended Credit Facility requires significantly less collateral as compared to the Credit Facility and is expected to provide net interest expense savings of approximately $70 million annually. This amount represents the net impact of reduced interest expense and interest income as a result of lower cash and debt balances, as well as a more favorable interest rate on the Amended Credit Facility. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, below, and Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to this new facility. In 2006, the Company announced a program to reduce then projected 2007 expenses by $400 million. The Company has identified specific programs to realize these savings, and continues 33 to identify and evaluate other savings opportunities. For example, the Company expects to reduce costs by approximately $200 million through savings in such areas as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials and aircraft ground handling. The Company also expects to reduce advertising and marketing costs by as much as $60 million. Increased operational efficiencies, through the implementation of such initiatives as a new flight planning system and reduced block times are expected to generate approximately $40 million in savings. In addition, the Company estimates it will achieve a $100 million reduction in general and administrative expenses, which includes a reduction of salaried and management positions. The Company realized approximately $135 million of the projected $400 million of 2007 cost reductions in 2006, and is on track to achieve $265 million of projected cost savings in 2007. In the second quarter of 2006, the General Services Administration (GSA) awarded its annual U.S. government employee travel contracts for its upcoming fiscal year beginning October 1, 2006. The GSA selected United to provide certain air transportation services for which the estimated annual revenue to United will be approximately $540 million, or 27.4% of the total estimated GSA employee travel award. This award level represents a 6.7 point increase over the prior contract year. Effective September 2006, United began charging travel agents within North America a $3.50 per passenger segment fee if low cost booking channels are not used. In 2006, United also renegotiated its agreements with four major GDS providers to allow access to low cost booking options for Uniteds appointed travel agencies. Increased use of low cost booking channels is expected to reduce Uniteds product distribution expenses. In the third quarter of 2006, United announced the addition of 22 new flights from Washington Dulles, which increased departures from Dulles by 14 percent in the fall of 2006 as compared to the fall of 2005. In early 2007, the DOT awarded United the route between Washington Dulles Beijing and this nonstop service will commence on March 28, 2007. The Company plans to reallocate existing aircraft to serve this new route. The Company continues to identify and implement continuous improvement programs, and is actively training key employees in continuous improvement strategies and techniques. These include such initiatives as optimization of aircraft and airport facilities and selected outsourcing of activities to more cost effective service providers. The Company expects that these programs, as well as the aforementioned expense reduction programs, will produce economic benefits which will be necessary to mitigate inflationary cost pressures in other categories of operating expenses, such as airport usage fees, aircraft maintenance, and employee healthcare benefits, among others. Financial Results. Upon UALs emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Company adopted fresh start reporting in accordance with SOP 90 7. Thus, the consolidated financial statements before February 1, 2006 reflect results based upon the historical cost basis of the Company while the post emergence consolidated financial statements reflect the new basis of accounting, which incorporates fair value adjustments recorded from the application of SOP 90 7. Therefore, financial statements for the post emergence periods are not comparable to the pre emergence period financial statements. The adoption of fresh start reporting had a significantly negative impact on the Companys results of operations. The significant differences in accounting results are discussed under Fresh Start Reporting, below. For purposes of providing managements year over year discussions of UALs financial condition and results of operations, management has compared the combined 2006 annual results consisting of the Successor Companys results for the eleven months ended December 31, 2006 and the Predecessor Companys January 2006 results, to the Predecessor Companys annual 2005 and 2004 results. References to Successor Company refer to UAL on or after February 1, 2006, after giving effect to the adoption of fresh start reporting. References to Predecessor Company refer to UAL before its exit from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006. 34 The table below presents a reconciliation of the Companys net income (loss) to net income (loss), excluding reorganization items for the three years ended December 31, 2006. Presentation of results for the combined twelve month period of 2006, as described in the preceding paragraph, and the presentation of net income excluding reorganization items, are non GAAP measures. However, the Company believes that these year over year comparisons of the results of operations, as shown in the table below, provide management and investors a useful perspective of the Companys core business and on going operational and financial performance and trends, since reorganization items pertain to accounting for the effects of the bankruptcy restructuring and are not recurring. In addition, the combined twelve month period of 2006 is presented to improve comparability with the full years of 2005 and 2004. Combined Predecessor Predecessor Successor Twelve Twelve Twelve (In millions) Period from January 1 to January 31, Period from February 1 to December 31, Months Ended December 31, Months Ended December 31, Months Ended December 31, 2006 2006 2006(a) 2005 2004 Net income (loss) $ 22,851 $ 25 $ 22,876 $ (21,176 ) $ (1,721 ) Reorganization items, net (22,934 ) (22,934 ) 20,601 611 Net income (loss), excluding reorganization items, net $ (83 ) $ 25 $ (58 ) $ (575 ) $ (1,110 ) (a) The combined period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). The Companys improved results of operations in 2006, as compared with 2005 and 2004, were influenced by a number of significant factors, including fresh start reporting and other factors that are described below. Fresh Start Reporting. Under fresh start reporting at the Effective Date, the Companys asset values were remeasured using fair value, and were allocated in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141). The excess of reorganization value over the net fair value of tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. In addition, fresh start accounting also requires that all assets and liabilities be stated at fair value or at the present values of the amounts to be paid using appropriate market interest rates, except for deferred taxes, which are accounted for in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). The Companys results in 2006 were significantly impacted by fresh start reporting and other non cash expenses; the most significant impacts are discussed below. As part of fresh start reporting the Company changed its accounting for Mileage Plus from the incremental cost model to the deferred revenue model. Under the incremental cost method, the estimated liability was based on incremental costs and adjustments were made to both operating revenues and advertising expense. Under the deferred revenue model a portion of ticket revenue from Mileage Plus members, and other qualifying mileage transactions, is allocated to deferred revenue at fair value to reflect the Companys obligation for future award redemptions. This change in accounting negatively impacted the Companys operating revenues by approximately $158 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The negative revenue impact was partially offset by a reduction in advertising expense of approximately $27 million which the Company estimates would have been recorded if the incremental cost method had been continued. Mileage Plus accounting is discussed further in Critical Accounting Policies, below. 35 The Company recorded non cash share based compensation expense of $159 million in 2006 in association with its MEIP and DEIP plans as approved under the Plan of Reorganization. This expense was not recognized in 2005 and 2004, because prior to 2006 the Company accounted for its share based compensation plans under the intrinsic method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. In 2006, the Company recognized non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $74 million on assets that were recorded at fair value as part of fresh start reporting, including definite lived intangible assets that were recognized under fresh start accounting. UAL did not recognize similar asset values or related amortization expense in the preceding annual periods. The adjustment of the Companys postretirement plan liabilities to fair value at fresh start resulted in the elimination of unrecognized prior service credits and actuarial losses for its non pension postretirement plan. The elimination of these unrecognized items negatively impacted the Companys 2006 expenses by approximately $51 million. Aircraft rent was negatively impacted by approximately $101 million. This included an unfavorable impact of $66 million related to deferred gains on pre emergence sale leaseback transactions that were eliminated as part of fresh start reporting. Before fresh start reporting, these deferred gains were being amortized into earnings over the lease terms as a reduction of the related aircraft rent expense. Also due to the restructuring of aircraft financings in bankruptcy, the Companys operating leases were at average rates below market value; therefore, a deferred charge was recorded to adjust these leases to fair value. Amortization of this deferred charge resulted in additional rent expense of approximately $35 million in 2006. The Company recognized additional non cash interest expense of approximately $51 million for the amortization of debt and capital lease obligation discounts that were recorded upon its emergence from bankruptcy to adjust its debt and capital lease obligations to fair value. At UALs emergence from bankruptcy, there were certain unresolved matters which are considered to be preconfirmation contingencies. The Company initially recorded an obligation for its best estimate of the amounts it expected to pay to resolve these matters. Adjustments to these initial estimates are recorded in current results of operations. The most significant of these were classified as Special items in the Companys 2006 Statement of Consolidated Operations and include a net benefit of $12 million related to the San Francisco International Airport (SFO) and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) municipal bond obligations and a benefit of $24 million related to the termination of certain of the Companys non qualified pension plans. The Company adjusted its estimated liabilities for these preconfirmation contingencies during the eleven months ended December 31, 2006 to the amounts the Company now believes to be probable based on court rulings and other updated information. In addition to the special items previously noted, other accruals and accrual adjustments provided an additional net benefit of approximately $29 million to 2006 operating expenses. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Claims Resolution Process, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these adjustments. Other Factors. Operating revenues increased $2.0 billion, or 11%, in 2006 as compared to 2005 and by $2.9 billion, or 18%, in 2006 as compared to 2004. Revenues increased in 2006 and 2005 largely due to passenger revenue growth from Uniteds improved worldwide airline network performance and a more healthy revenue environment for United and the airline industry, which was significantly aided by constrained industry capacity growth during these periods. However, Uniteds passenger revenue growth rate has slowed in the latter part of 2006, with the 2006 fourth quarter operating 36 revenues increasing 5% over the same quarter in 2005, as compared to a growth rate of 10% in the fourth quarter of 2005 over the same quarter in 2004. Fourth quarter revenues in 2006 were also negatively impacted by severe winter storms in Denver and Chicago, as discussed below. These revenues were also adversely affected by Mileage Plus accounting in 2006 as discussed above. United Express contributed $77 million to operating income in 2006 as compared to negative contributions to operating results of $317 million in 2005 and $494 million in 2004. This improvement is due to an improved regional operations cost structure resulting from the bankruptcy reorganization, network optimization similar to that achieved for the mainline operation, and the replacement of some 50 seat regional jets with 70 seat regional jets providing both first class and Economy Plus service, among other factors. Mainline fuel costs have significantly trended upward since 2004, increasing by $792 million between 2005 and 2006, and by $1.9 billion between 2004 and 2006. These increases are primarily due to significant increases in market prices for jet fuel. The Companys average cost per gallon for jet fuel, including taxes and hedge impacts, increased from approximately $1.25 in 2004, to $1.79 in 2005, and to $2.11 in 2006. Similar increases were experienced in the average cost per gallon of jet fuel for United Express between periods, which is classified as Regional affiliates expense in the Statements of Consolidated Operations. Aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs expense increased $128 million, or 15%, in 2006 as compared to 2005, and by $262 million, or 35%, in 2006 as compared to 2004. As further discussed in the Results of Operations section below, these increases are due to several factors, including higher volumes of outsourced maintenance, increased rates under certain long term maintenance contracts and aging engines within Uniteds fleet. Interest expense increased $288 million in 2006 as compared to 2005, and by $321 million as compared to 2004, primarily due to increased debt outstanding of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the Companys new capital structure resulting from its emergence from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006 and the fresh start reporting adjustments discussed above. The increased interest expense was partially offset by increased interest income of $211 million in 2006, as compared to 2005. The Predecessor Company included $6 million and $60 million of interest income in reorganization items, net in accordance with SOP 90 7, for January 2006 and calendar year 2005, respectively. The January 2006 reorganization income of approximately $22.9 billion primarily relates to the discharge of liabilities and other fresh start adjustments recorded in connection with the Companys implementation of the Plan of Reorganization preparatory to its emergence from bankruptcy. In 2005, the reorganization charges of approximately $20.6 billion were primarily for pension, employee related, and aircraft claim charges of $8.9 billion, $6.5 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. For additional information, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Financial Statement Presentation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had total cash, including restricted cash and short term investments, of $5.0 billion. The Companys strong cash position resulted from its recapitalization upon emergence from bankruptcy, together with strong operating cash flows of $1.6 billion in 2006, as compared to $1.1 billion in 2005 and $0.1 billion in 2004. As noted above, in February 2007, the Company reduced its cash by approximately $1.0 billion to a level that it believes is more optimal for its capital structure. The cash was used to prepay a portion of the Companys Credit Facility, which accordingly reduced debt by $972 million. As part of this transaction, the Company entered into the Amended Credit Facility consisting of an amended and restated revolving credit, term loan and guaranty agreement of $2.1 billion. 37 The Company has significant contractual cash payment obligations associated with debt, aircraft leases and aircraft purchase commitments, among others. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, below, for further information related to the Amended Credit Facility and the Companys contractual obligations. Contingencies. During the course of its Chapter 11 proceedings, the Company successfully reached settlements with most of its creditors and resolved most pending claims against the Debtors. The following discussion provides a summary of the material matters yet to be resolved in the Bankruptcy Court, as well as other contingencies. For further information on these matters, see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations and Note 15, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Municipal Bond Obligations. The Company is a party to numerous long term agreements to lease certain airport and maintenance facilities that are financed through tax exempt municipal bonds issued by various local municipalities to build or improve airport and maintenance facilities. As a result of the Companys bankruptcy filing, United was not permitted to make payments on unsecured pre petition debt. The Company had been advised that these municipal bonds may have been unsecured (or in certain instances, partially secured) pre petition debt. Therefore, through the bankruptcy process, the Company either settled or rejected certain pre petition debt associated with the municipal bonds. In 2006, certain of the Companys municipal bond obligations relating to JFK, LAX and SFO have been conclusively adjudicated through the Bankruptcy Court as financings and not true leases, while the bonds relating to Denver International Airport (DEN) have been conclusively adjudicated as a true lease. The Company has guaranteed $261 million of the DEN bonds as discussed in Capital Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements below. There remains pending litigation to determine the value of the security interests, if any, that the bondholders at LAX and SFO have in the underlying UAL leaseholds. Pension Benefit Terminations. In June 2006, the District Court entered an order approving the termination of the United Airlines Pilot Defined Benefit Pension Plan (Pilot Plan). ALPA, United Retired Pilots Benefit Protection Association (URPBPA) and the PBGC each filed appeals with the Court of Appeals. On October 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Courts order approving the termination of the Pilot Plan effective December 30, 2004. Both ALPA and URPBPA have filed petitions for writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has yet to rule on either petition. If the termination order is ultimately reversed by the Supreme Court and it results in the reversal of the termination of one or more of the Companys previously defined benefit pension plans, it could have a materially adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. There is also a dispute with respect to the continuing obligation of United to pay non qualified pension benefits to retired pilots pending settlement of the involuntary termination proceeding. On October 6, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the Company was obligated to make payment of all non qualified pension benefits for October 2005. During the first quarter of 2006, the District Court dismissed the Companys appeal of the Bankruptcy Courts October 6, 2005 order in light of its earlier decision reversing the Bankruptcy Courts termination order. On October 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals reversed the District Courts order dismissing for lack of ripeness the Companys appeal of the Bankruptcy Courts October 6, 2005 order and remanded the case with instructions to reverse the Bankruptcy Courts order compelling payment of non qualified benefits for October 2005. On November 6, 2006, ALPA filed a petition for rehearing on the Court of Appeals reversal of the October 6, 2005 order. Both ALPA and URPBPA filed petitions for writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court on this issue. The Supreme Court has yet to rule on either petition. 38 In March 2006, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the Company was obligated to make payment of all pilot non qualified pension benefits for the months of November and December 2005 and January 2006. The Bankruptcy Court also ruled that the Companys obligation to pay pilot non qualified pension benefits ceased as of January 31, 2006. The Company filed a notice of appeal of the Bankruptcy Courts ruling to the District Court. URPBPA and ALPA also filed notices of appeal with respect to the Bankruptcy Courts order, which were subsequently consolidated with the Companys appeal. United agreed with URPBPA and ALPA to pay into an escrow account the disputed non qualified pension benefits for the months of November and December 2005 and January 2006, an aggregate amount totaling approximately $17 million. The District Court affirmed the Bankruptcy Courts ruling in September 2006. The Company filed a notice of appeal of the District Courts ruling to the Court of Appeals. URPBPA and ALPA also appealed the District Courts decision. The Company subsequently filed a motion to consolidate its appeal from the Bankruptcy Courts October 2005 non qualified benefits order with the three appeals from the Bankruptcy Courts March 2006 non qualified benefits order. The Court of Appeals denied the Companys motion, but issued an order staying briefing on the March 2006 non qualified benefits order until further order of the Court of Appeals. In light of the Court of Appeals October 25, 2006 decision described above, the Company is reasonably optimistic of a successful outcome of its appeal in this matter, although there can be no assurances that the ultimate outcome of this appeal will be favorable to the Company. Legal and Environmental. UAL has certain contingencies resulting from litigation and claims (including environmental issues) incident to the ordinary course of business. Management believes, after considering a number of factors, including (but not limited to) the views of legal counsel, the nature of contingencies to which the Company is subject and prior experience, that the ultimate disposition of these contingencies will not materially affect the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. When appropriate, the Company accrues for these matters based on its assessments of the likely outcomes of their eventual disposition. The amounts of these liabilities could increase or decrease in the near term, based on revisions to estimates relating to the various claims. New regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (such as carbon dioxide) are being considered for promulgation both internationally and within the United States. The Company will be carefully evaluating the potential impact of such proposed regulations. The Company anticipates that if ultimately found liable, its damages from claims arising from the events of September 11, 2001, could be significant; however, the Company believes that, under the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act of 2001, its liability will be limited to its insurance coverage. Results of Operations As described in the Overview section above, presentation of the combined twelve month period of 2006 is a non GAAP measure; however, management believes it is useful for comparison with the full years of 2005 and 2004. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Companys operations can be adversely impacted by severe weather and its first and fourth quarter results normally reflect lower travel demand. Historically, because of these seasonal factors, results of operations are better in the second and third quarters. Earnings from operations increased $666 million to $447 million in 2006 as compared to a loss from operations of $219 million in 2005. Excluding reorganization items, the net loss was $58 million in 2006 which represents an improvement of $517 million over the net loss in 2005 of $575 million. These improvements are due to the net impact of the items discussed below, among other factors. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Financial Statement Presentation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on reorganization items. 39 Operating Revenues. 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table illustrates the year over year dollar and percentage changes in major categories of operating revenues. Predecessor Successor Combined Predecessor Period from January 1 to January 31, Period from February 1 to December 31, Period Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, $ % (Dollars in millions) 2006 2006 2006(a) 2005 Change Change Operating revenues: Passenger United Airlines $ 1,074 $ 13,293 $ 14,367 $ 12,914 $ 1,453 11 Passenger Regional Affiliates 204 2,697 2,901 2,429 472 19 Cargo 56 694 750 729 21 3 Other operating revenues 124 1,198 1,322 1,307 15 1 $ 1,458 $ 17,882 $ 19,340 $ 17,379 $ 1,961 11 (a) The combined 2006 period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). Strong demand, industry capacity restraint, yield improvements, Uniteds resource optimization initiatives, and ongoing airline network optimization all contributed to a $2.0 billion increase in total operating revenue to $19.3 billion in 2006. The 11% mainline passenger revenue increase was due to both increased traffic and higher average ticket prices; United reported a 3% increase in mainline traffic on a 2% increase in capacity and an 8% increase in yield. Severe winter storms in December 2006 at the Chicago and Denver hubs, which resulted in the cancellation of approximately 3,900 United and United Express flights at these locations, had the estimated impact of reducing revenue by $40 million and reducing total expenses by $11 million. As discussed in Critical Accounting Policies, below, the Company changed the accounting for its frequent flyer obligation to a deferred revenue model upon its emergence from bankruptcy which negatively impacted revenues by $158 million. This resulted in increased deferred revenue due to a net increase in miles earned by Mileage Plus customers that will be redeemed in future years. The 19% increase in regional affiliate revenues was also due to traffic and yield improvements as indicated in the table below. The increase in cargo revenue was primarily due to improved yield, which was partially due to higher fuel surcharges between periods. The table below presents selected passenger revenues and operating data by geographic region and the Companys mainline and United Express segments expressed as period to period changes: 2006 North America Pacific Atlantic Latin Mainline United Express Consolidated Increase (decrease) from 2005(a): Passenger revenues (in millions) $ 1,022 $ 234 $ 118 $ 79 $ 1,453 $ 472 $ 1,925 Passenger revenues 13% 9% 6% 19% 11% 19% 13% ASMs 4% % (2)% 9% 2% 9% 3% RPMs 4% 1% (2)% 13% 3% 13% 4% Load factor (percent) 0.3 pts 1.4 pts 0.7 pts 2.6 pts 0.7 pts 2.7 pts 0.8 pts Yield(b) 9% 8% 9% 6% 8% 6% 9% (a) The combined 2006 period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). (b) Yields exclude charter revenue and revenue passenger miles. 40 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table illustrates the year over year dollar and percentage changes in major categories of operating revenues. (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 $ Change % Change Operating revenues: Passenger United Airlines $ 12,914 $ 12,542 $ 372 3 Passenger Regional Affiliates 2,429 1,931 498 26 Cargo 729 704 25 4 Other operating revenues 1,307 1,214 93 8 Total $ 17,379 $ 16,391 $ 988 6 The table below presents selected passenger revenues and operating data by geographic region and the Companys mainline and United Express segments expressed as period to period changes: 2005 North America Pacific Atlantic Latin Mainline United Express Consolidated Increase (decrease) from 2004: Passenger revenues (in millions) $ (153) $ 364 $ 101 $ 60 $ 372 $ 498 $ 870 Passenger revenues (2)% 16% 6% 16% 3% 26% 6% ASMs (10)% 13% 1% 16% (3)% 21% (2)% RPMs (6)% 12% 1% 16% (1)% 23% 1% Load factor 3.7 pts (0.9) pts 0.1 pts 0.1 pts 2.2 pts 1.0 pts 2.0 pts Yield(a) 5% 4% 7% (2)% 4% 3% 5% (a) Yields exclude charter revenue and revenue passenger miles. Consolidated operating revenues increased $988 million, or 6%, in 2005 as compared to 2004 and mainline RASM increased 7% from 9.95 cents to 10.66 cents. Mainline passenger revenues increased $372 million, or 3%, due to a 4% increase in yield slightly offset by a decline in RPMs of 1%. ASMs decreased 3%; however, passenger load factor increased 2.2 points to 81.4%. Passenger revenues Regional Affiliates increased $498 million, or 26%, in 2005 as compared to 2004 mainly due to increased volume of United Express regional carrier flying. Cargo revenues increased $25 million, or 4%, in 2005 as compared to 2004 due to a 1% increase in cargo ton miles combined with a 2% increase in cargo yield. Other operating revenues increased $93 million, or 8%, primarily due to increases in third party maintenance revenues and ULS revenues, partially offset by a decrease in United Airlines Fuel Corporation (UAFC) fuel sales to third parties. 41 Operating Expenses. 2006 Compared to 2005 The table below includes the year over year dollar and percentage changes in operating expenses. Significant fluctuations are discussed below. Predecessor Successor Combined Predecessor (Dollars in millions) Period from January 1 to January 31, 2006 Period from February 1 to December 31, 2006 Period Ended December 31, 2006(a) Year Ended December 31, 2005 $ Change % Change Operating expenses: Aircraft fuel $ 362 $ 4,462 $ 4,824 $ 4,032 $ 792 20 Salaries and related costs 358 3,909 4,267 4,027 240 6 Regional affiliates 228 2,596 2,824 2,746 78 3 Purchased services 134 1,595 1,729 1,524 205 14 Aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs 80 929 1,009 881 128 15 Depreciation and amortization 68 820 888 856 32 4 Landing fees and other rent 75 801 876 915 (39 ) (4 ) Cost of third party sales 65 614 679 685 (6 ) (1 ) Aircraft rent 30 385 415 402 13 3 Commissions 24 291 315 305 10 3 Special operating items (Note 19) (36 ) (36 ) 18 (54 ) Other operating expenses 86 1,017 1,103 1,207 (104 ) (9 ) $ 1,510 $ 17,383 $ 18,893 $ 17,598 $ 1,295 7 (a) The combined period includes the results for one month ended January 31, 2006 (Predecessor Company) and eleven months ended December 31, 2006 (Successor Company). In 2006, United implemented a resource optimization initiative that increased the number of mainline ASMs by 1% and United Express ASMs by 3%, for a consolidated ASM impact of 2%, without the use of additional aircraft. In addition to generating increased revenue, this contributed to additional variable expenses such as fuel, salaries, and other expense items. Higher fuel costs have had a significantly adverse effect on the Companys operating expenses in 2006 as compared to 2005. In 2006, mainline aircraft fuel expense increased 20% due to an increase in average mainline fuel cost from $1.79 per gallon in 2005 to $2.11 per gallon in 2006, while fuel consumption increased 2% on a similar increase in mainline capacity. The Company recognized a net fuel hedge loss of $26 million in aircraft fuel expense in 2006, which is included in the $2.11 per gallon average cost, whereas in 2005 most fuel hedging gains and losses were recorded in non operating income and expense. In 2005, the Company recorded $40 million of fuel hedging gains in non operating income, as discussed below. Salaries and related costs increased $240 million, or 6%, in 2006 as compared to the prior year. In 2006 the Company recorded $159 million of expense, representing 4% of the increase in salaries and related costs, for the Successor Companys share based compensation plans because of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006. In addition, the Company incurred an additional $26 million related to employee performance incentive programs in 2006 as compared to 2005. The Company also recorded $64 million in higher postretirement expenses and $35 million in higher medical and dental expenses in 2006 than in 2005. Salaries also increased due to merit increases awarded to employees in 2006, which were infrequent throughout bankruptcy. These cost increases were partially offset by a 6% year over year improvement in 42 labor productivity resulting from the Companys continuous improvement efforts, together with selective outsourcing of certain non core functions. In 2006, the Company achieved its goal to reduce 1,000 management and administrative positions. The Companys most significant regional affiliate expenses are capacity payments to the regional carriers and fuel expense. Fuel accounted for 30% of the Companys regional affiliate expense in 2006, as compared to 26% in 2005. Fuel cost increased due to increased market prices for jet fuel, as discussed above, and increased fuel consumption from higher capacity. The Companys regional affiliate expense increased only 3% despite a 9% increase in capacity due to the benefits of restructured lower cost regional carrier capacity agreements in 2006 along with regional carrier network optimization and the replacement of some 50 seat regional jets with 70 seat regional jets. The 3% increase in regional affiliates expense includes an 18% increase in fuel costs. See Note 2(i), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies United Express, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Regional affiliates expense. Purchased services increased $205 million, or 14%, in 2006, as compared to 2005, primarily due to an increase of approximately $120 million in outsourcing costs for various non core work activities; a $31 million increase in certain professional fees, which were classified as reorganization expenses by the Predecessor Company; and a $24 million increase in credit card fees due to higher passenger revenues. The offsetting benefits of higher outsourcing costs are reflected in a 4% reduction in manpower associated with the 6% labor productivity improvement noted for salaries and related costs. In 2006, aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs expense increased $128 million, or 15%, from 2005 primarily due to engine related maintenance rate increases as well as increased volume. As discussed in Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Fresh Start Reporting, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company revalued its assets and liabilities to estimated fair values. In 2006, amortization expense increased $162 million due to the recognition of $453 million of additional definite lived intangible assets; however, this increase was offset by decreased depreciation expense from fresh start reporting adjustments that significantly reduced depreciable tangible asset book values to fair value. The impact of the decrease in tangible asset valuation was significant as depreciation and amortization only increased $32 million despite the $162 million increase in intangible asset amortization and incremental depreciation on post emergence property additions. Other operating expense decreased $104 million in 2006, as compared to 2005. The adoption of fresh start reporting, which included the revaluation of the Companys frequent flyer obligation to estimated fair value and the change in accounting policy to a deferred revenue model for the Successor Company reduced other expense by $27 million. For periods on or after February 1, 2006, adjustments to the frequent flyer obligation are recorded to passenger and other operating revenues, whereas periodic adjustments under the Predecessor Companys incremental cost basis were recognized in both operating revenues and other operating expense. See Critical Accounting Policies, below, for further details. Various cost savings initiatives also reduced the Companys costs in 2006 as compared to 2005. In 2006, the Company recognized a net benefit of approximately $36 million to operating expense resulting from the resolution of preconfirmation contingencies for the estimated liability for SFO and LAX municipal bond obligations, and favorable adjustments to preconfirmation contingencies related to the pilots non qualified pension plan. In 2005, the Company recognized a charge of $18 million for aircraft impairments related to the planned accelerated retirement of certain aircraft. See Note 19, Special Items, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 43 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table presents the year over year dollar and percentage changes in operating expenses for the Predecessor Company in 2005 as compared to 2004. (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 $ Change % Change Operating expenses: Aircraft fuel $ 4,032 $ 2,943 $ 1,089 37 Salaries and related costs 4,027 5,006 (979 ) (20 ) Regional affiliates 2,746 2,425 321 13 Purchased services 1,524 1,462 62 4 Aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs 915 964 (49 ) (5 ) Depreciation and amortization 881 747 134 18 Landing fees and other rent 856 874 (18 ) (2 ) Cost of third party sales 685 709 (24 ) (3 ) Aircraft rent 402 533 (131 ) (25 ) Commissions 305 305 Special operating items (Note 19) 18 18 Other operating expenses 1,207 1,277 (70 ) (5 ) $ 17,598 $ 17,245 $ 353 2 Overall, operating expense increased only 2% in 2005 from 2004. The significant changes from 2004 to 2005 included: A $1.1 billion, or 37%, increase in aircraft fuel expense was primarily due to a 43% increase in the average cost of fuel (including tax and hedge impact), partially offset by a 4% decrease in consumption. Salaries and related costs decreased by $1.0 billion, or 20%, primarily due to cost savings associated with lower salaries and benefits as well as lower full time equivalent employees. The decrease in salaries and related costs was driven by wage and benefit concessions resulting from negotiations with employees and productivity improvements. Regional affiliates increased $321 million primarily as a result of increased fuel costs and volumes of United Express regional carrier flying, partially offset by new and amended contract savings. A $134 million increase in aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs resulted primarily from higher levels of purchased maintenance activity. This increase was partially offset by certain productivity and labor rate improvements, the effects of which are reflected in salaries and related costs. A $131 million decrease in aircraft rent was due to the restructuring of aircraft lease obligations and fleet reductions. 44 Other income (expense). 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table illustrates the year over year dollar and percentage changes in consolidated other income (expense). Predecessor Successor Combined Predecessor Period from January 1 to January 31, Period from February 1 to December 31, Period Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31 $ % (Dollars in millions) 2006 2006 2006(a) 2005 Change Change Operating income (expense): Interest expense $ (42 ) $ (728 ) $ (770 ) $ (482 ) $ (288 ) (60 ) Interest income 6 243 249 38 211 555 Interest capitalized 15 15 (3 ) 18 Miscellaneous, net 14 14 87 (73 ) (84 ) $ (36 ) $ (456 ) $ (492 ) $ (360 ) $ (132 ) (37 ) The Company incurred a $288 million increase in interest expense, which was partly due to the higher outstanding principal balance of the Credit Facility for the Successor Company, as compared to the lower DIP Financing balance for the Predecessor Company. Interest expense in 2006 was also unfavorably impacted by the associated amortization of various discounts which were recorded on debt instruments and capital leases to record these obligations at fair value upon the adoption of fresh start reporting. Interest income increased $211 million year over year, reflecting a higher cash balance in 2006, as well as higher rates of return on certain investments. Interest income also increased due to the classification of most interest income in 2005 as reorganization expense in accordance with SOP 90 7. In 2005, the Company recorded $40 million of fuel hedge gains which did not qualify for hedge accounting in non operating income, while in 2006 the $26 million net realized and unrealized loss from economic fuel hedges was recognized in aircraft fuel expense. 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table presents year over year dollar and percentage changes in consolidated other income (expense) for the Predecessor Company in 2005 as compared to 2004. (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 $ Change % Change Operating income (expense): Interest expense $ (482 ) $ (449 ) $ (33 ) (7 ) Interest income 38 25 13 52 Interest capitalized (3 ) 1 (4 ) Gain on sale of investments (Note 7) 158 (158 ) Non operating special items (Note 19) 5 (5 ) Miscellaneous, net 87 (1 ) 88 $ (360 ) $ (261 ) $ (99 ) (38 ) The Company reported a gain of $158 million from the sale of its investment in Orbitz in 2004. In addition, an increase in interest expense of $33 million, or 7%, in 2005 was due to higher interest and fees applicable to the increased outstanding debt on the DIP Financing between periods. The Company recorded $40 million of fuel hedge gains in Miscellaneous, net in 2005 since they did not qualify for hedge accounting. There were no significant fuel hedge gains or losses included in Miscellaneous, net in 2004. In 45 2005, the other significant item that was included in Miscellaneous, net was approximately $25 million of foreign currency transaction gains from the revaluation of certain foreign currency denominated debt and pension obligations. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Financial Statement Presentation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Reorganization items, net. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity. UALs total of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short term investments was $5.0 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, including restricted cash of $847 million and $957 million, respectively. At December 31, 2006, the Company reclassified $972 million of its long term debt to current maturities to reflect its intent to prepay a portion of the Credit Facility. In February 2007, the Company reduced its cash position by $972 million through the prepayment of part of its Credit Facility debt. This debt prepayment reduced the Companys cash balance to a level that it believes is more optimal. In addition, certain terms of the Credit Facility were amended in February 2007. The Amended Credit Facility consists of a $1.8 billion term loan and a $255 million revolving commitment. At the Companys option, interest payments are based on either a base rate, as defined in the Amended Credit Facility, or at LIBOR plus 2%. This applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans is a significant reduction of 1.75% from the Credit Facility. The Amended Credit Facility frees up a significant amount of assets that had been pledged as collateral under the Credit Facility. See the Capital Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section, below, for information related to scheduled maturities on the Amended Credit Facility. In January 2007, the Company decided to terminate the interest rate swap that had been used to hedge the future interest payments under the original Credit Facility term loan of $2.45 billion. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company expects to expense approximately $16 million of deferred financing costs related to the prepaid portion of the Credit Facility. Restricted cash primarily represents cash collateral to secure workers compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process Uniteds credit card ticket sales. Certain of the credit card processing arrangements are based on the aggregate then outstanding bank card air traffic liability, the Companys credit rating and its compliance with certain debt covenants. Credit rating downgrades or debt covenant noncompliance could materially increase the Companys reserve requirements. Cash Flows from Operating Activities. 2006 compared to 2005 The Company generated cash from operations of $1.6 billion in 2006 compared to $1.1 billion in 2005. The higher operating cash flow generated in 2006 was due to improved results of operations as discussed above in the Results of Operation section, together with differences in the timing and amount of working capital items, and other smaller changes. As discussed in the Fresh Start Reporting section, above, UALs 2006 net income includes significant non cash items. The Company does not have any significant defined benefit pension plan contribution requirements as most of the Company sponsored plans were replaced with defined contribution plans upon its emergence from bankruptcy. The Company contributed approximately $259 million and $11 million to its defined contribution plans and non U.S. pension plans, respectively, in the eleven months ended December 31, 2006. 46 2005 compared to 2004 For the year ended December 31, 2005, UAL generated cash from operations of $1.1 billion, a $980 million increase over cash generated from operations of $99 million in 2004. The higher operating cash generated in 2005 was largely due to improved results of operations, together with increased advanced ticket sales and differences in amounts and timing of other working capital changes. The Company contributed $127 million towards its U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2004, but made no such cash contributions in 2006 or 2005. The Company contributed $61 million and $75 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, largely towards its non U.S. pension plans and its U.S. non qualified pension plans. Detailed information regarding the Companys pension plans is included in Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flows from Investing Activities. 2006 Compared to 2005 Cash used by investing activities was $250 million in 2006 as compared to $291 million in 2005. Cash released from segregated funds after exit from bankruptcy in 2006 provided $200 million in cash proceeds, and the sale of the subsidiary MyPoints.com, Inc. in 2006 generated an additional $56 million in cash proceeds. Cash used for increases in short term investments in 2006 was $235 million, as compared to $1 million provided from the sale of short term investments in 2005. A reduction in restricted cash balances provided $110 million of cash proceeds in 2006, as compared to cash used to increase restricted cash of $80 million in 2005. Required restricted cash balances in 2006 have decreased slightly from 2005 as a result of the Companys emergence from bankruptcy, among other factors. In 2006, the Company did not reject or return any aircraft under Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code, although the sale of nine non operating B767 200 aircraft during this period provided $19 million in cash proceeds from the disposition of property and equipment. The Company used $362 million in cash for the acquisition of property and equipment in 2006, as compared to $470 million in 2005. 2005 Compared to 2004 Overall, cash used in investing activities of $291 million in 2005 was comparable to cash used of $296 million in 2004. The Company sold ten B727, five B737 and seven B767 aircraft and rejected or returned to the financiers 30 B737 aircraft, ten B767 aircraft and one B747 aircraft under Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code in 2005. The Company then reacquired eight of the previously returned B767 aircraft, of which four were purchased by the Company from the Public Debt Group and subsequently sold to a third party and simultaneously leased back, and of which four were acquired directly by a third party from the Public Debt Group and subsequently leased to the Company. In addition, the Company, as part of its agreement with the Public Debt Group, purchased six additional B767 aircraft from the Public Debt Group, which were subsequently sold to and leased back from third parties. During 2004, the Company received $218 million from the sales of its investments in Orbitz and Air Canada, and used $198 million to provide increased cash deposits classified as restricted, and $267 million for the acquisition of property and equipment. 47 Cash Flows from Financing Activities. 2006 Compared to 2005 Cash generated through financing activities was $782 million in 2006 compared to cash used of $110 million in 2005. In 2006, the Company made principal payments under long term debt and capital lease obligations totaling $2.1 billion, which included $1.2 billion for the repayment of the DIP Financing. In 2006, the Company obtained access to up to $3.0 billion in secured exit financing which consisted of a $2.45 billion term loan, a $350 million delayed draw term loan and a $200 million revolving credit line. On the Effective Date, $2.45 billion of the $2.8 billion term loan and the entire revolving credit line was drawn and used to repay the DIP Financing and to make other payments required upon exit from bankruptcy, as well as to provide ongoing liquidity to conduct post reorganization operations. Subsequently, the Company repaid borrowings under the revolving credit line and accessed the remaining $350 million on the delayed draw term loan. For further details on the Credit Facility, see Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a total of $2.8 billion of debt and $63 million in letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. During 2006, the Company secured control of 14 aircraft that were included in the 1997 1 EETC transaction by remitting $281 million to the 1997 1 EETC trustee on behalf of the holders of the Tranche A certificates. The Company subsequently refinanced the 14 aircraft on March 28, 2006 with the $350 million delayed draw term loan provided under the Credit Facility. The 14 aircraft are comprised of four B737 aircraft, two B747 aircraft, four B777 aircraft and four A320 aircraft. Significant 2006 non cash financing and investment activities included the conversion of six B757 aircraft and one B747 aircraft from leased to owned status resulting in additional aircraft assets and debt obligations of $242 million. The Company completed definitive documentation for this transaction in July 2006, as discussed in Note 1 Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, in the first quarter of 2006 the Successor Company completed a transaction that converted certain mortgaged aircraft to capital leases for $137 million. See Note 17, Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows Supplemental Disclosures, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2005 Compared to 2004 Cash used in financing activities was $110 million in 2005 compared to $72 million in 2004. During 2005, the Company made principal payments under long term debt, DIP Financing, and capital lease obligations of $285 million, $16 million, and $94 million, respectively. The total cash used for these payments was $395 million in 2005, as compared to total cash used of $737 million for principal payments under debt and capital lease obligations in 2004. In 2005 as compared to 2004, a decrease of $203 million in proceeds from the DIP financing offset the significant decrease in principal payments. During 2005, the Company made $16 million in principal payments on the DIP Financing. In addition, the Company renegotiated and expanded its DIP Financing facility, allowing it to borrow an additional $310 million during 2005. The amended DIP Financing facility also permitted the Company to make capital expenditures not exceeding $750 million towards aircraft acquisitions, with cash expenditures for such acquisitions not to exceed $300 million. This capital expenditures basket was created primarily to allow the Company to purchase certain aircraft that were controlled by the Public Debt Group, all of which were already in its fleet or had been in its fleet in the recent past. The Company raised $253 million in connection with the subsequent long term financing of ten of the B767 aircraft acquired from the Public Debt Group. Capital Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. UALs business is very capital intensive, requiring significant amounts of capital to fund the acquisition of assets, particularly aircraft. In the past, 48 the Company has funded the acquisition of aircraft through outright purchase, by issuing debt, by entering into capital or operating leases, or through vendor financings. The Company also often enters into long term lease commitments with airports to ensure access to terminal, cargo, maintenance and other required facilities. Following is a summary of the Companys material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006: One year Years Years After (In millions) or less 2 and 3 4 and 5 5 years Total Long term debt, including current portion(a) $ 715 $ 1,443 $ 1,777 $ 5,452 $ 9,387 Interest payments(b) 669 1,190 968 1,324 4,151 Capital lease obligations Mainline(c) 240 470 586 679 1,975 United Express(c) 15 29 25 19 88 Aircraft operating lease obligations Mainline 358 668 610 1,239 2,875 United Express(d) 413 818 738 1,117 3,086 Other operating lease obligations 507 951 859 3,464 5,781 Postretirement obligations(e) 161 321 312 709 1,503 Capital spending commitments(f) 128 76 691 1,577 2,472 Total $ 3,206 $ 5,966 $ 6,566 $ 15,580 $ 31,318 (a) Amounts represent contractual amounts due (the one year or less column does not reflect the $972 million prepayment of the Credit Facility in February 2007, as this was not a contractual obligation at December 31, 2006). (b) Future interest payments on variable rate debt are estimated using estimated future variable rates based on a yield curve, and have not been adjusted for the February 2007 $972 million prepayment of the Credit Facility. (c) Includes non aircraft capital lease payments of $4 million in each of the years 2007 through 2011. United Express payments are all for aircraft. (d) Amounts represent lease payments that are made by United under capacity agreements with the regional carriers who operate these aircraft on Uniteds behalf. (e) Amounts represent postretirement benefit payments, net of subsidy receipts, through 2016. Benefit payments approximate plan contributions as plans are substantially unfunded. Not included in the table above are contributions related to the Companys foreign pension plans. The Company does not have any significant contributions required by government regulations. The Companys expected pension plan contributions for 2007 are $14 million. (f) Amounts are principally for aircraft and exclude advance payments. The Company has the right to cancel its commitments for the purchase of A319 and A320 aircraft; however, such action could cause the forfeiture of $91 million of advance payments. In February 2007, the Company prepaid $972 million on the Credit Facility and amended certain of its terms. This prepayment increases (decreases) the Companys expected debt payments in the table above by $972 million in 2007, $(10) million in each of the years 2008 through 2011 and $(932) million thereafter. The prepayment and amendment of interest rate terms increases (decreases) the Companys total expected interest payments, as reported in the table above, by $(82) million in one year or less, $(252) million in combined years two and three, $(243) million in combined years four and five and $703 million after five years. Interest payments in the after five years period are higher because the Amended Credit Facility matures in 2014 while the Credit Facility would have matured in 2012 based on its original terms. 49 See Note 2(i), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies United Express, Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, Note 11, Debt Obligations, and Note 16, Lease Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of these items. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. An off balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the company, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with the company. The Companys off balance sheet arrangements include operating leases, which are summarized in the contractual obligations table, above, and certain municipal bond obligations as discussed below. Certain municipalities issued municipal bonds on behalf of United to finance the construction of improvements at airport related facilities. The Company also leases facilities at airports where municipal bonds funded at least some of the construction of airport related projects. At December 31, 2006, the Company guaranteed interest and principal payments on $261 million in principal of such bonds that were issued in 1992 and are due in 2032 unless the Company elects not to extend its lease in which case the bonds are due in 2023. The outstanding bonds and related guarantee are not recorded in the Companys Statements of Consolidated Financial Position in accordance with GAAP. The related lease agreement is accounted for as an operating lease, and the related rent expense is recorded on a straight line basis. The annual lease payments through 2023 and the final payment for the principal amount of the bonds are included in the operating lease payments in the contractual obligations table above. For further details, see Note 1 Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Considerations and Note 15, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties Guarantees and Off Balance Sheet Financing, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Fuel Consortia. The Company participates in numerous fuel consortia with other carriers at major airports to reduce the costs of fuel distribution and storage. Interline agreements govern the rights and responsibilities of the consortia members and provide for the allocation of the overall costs to operate the consortia based on usage. The consortia (and in limited cases, the participating carriers) have entered into long term agreements to lease certain airport fuel storage and distribution facilities that are typically financed through tax exempt bonds (either special facilities lease revenue bonds or general airport revenue bonds), issued by various local municipalities. In general, each consortium lease agreement requires the consortium to make lease payments in amounts sufficient to pay the maturing principal and interest payments on the bonds. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $484 million principal amount of such bonds were secured by fuel facility leases at major hubs in which United participates, as to which United and each of the signatory airlines has provided indirect guarantees of the debt. Uniteds exposure is approximately $171 million principal amount of such bonds based on its recent consortia participation. The Companys exposure could increase if the participation of other carriers decreases. The guarantees will expire when the tax exempt bonds are paid in full, which ranges from 2010 to 2028. The Company did not record a liability at the time these indirect guarantees were made. Debt Covenants. The Company was in compliance with the Credit Facility covenants as of December 31, 2006. As part of the amendment to the Credit Facility completed in February 2007, several covenants were amended to provide the Company more flexibility. The Amended Credit Facility contains covenants that will limit the ability of United and the Guarantors to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, create liens, pay dividends on or repurchase stock, make certain types of investments, pay dividends or other payments from Uniteds direct or indirect subsidiaries, enter into transactions with affiliates, sell assets or merge with other companies, modify corporate documents or change lines of business. The Amended Credit Facility also requires compliance with certain financial covenants. Failure to comply with the covenants could result in a default under the Amended Credit 50 Facility unless the Company were to obtain a waiver of, or otherwise mitigate or cure, any such default. Additionally, the Amended Credit Facility contains a cross default provision with respect to other credit arrangements that exceed $50 million. A payment default could result in a termination of the Amended Credit Facility and a requirement to accelerate repayment of all outstanding facility borrowings. The Company believes that the combination of its existing cash and cash flows generated by operations will be adequate to satisfy its projected liquidity needs over the next twelve months. For further details about the Amended Credit Facility and the associated covenants, see Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Future Financing. Substantially all of the Companys unencumbered assets were pledged to the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2006. The Amended Credit Facility allowed the Company to release certain assets with an estimated market value of approximately $2.5 billion from the Credit Facility collateral pool, which are now unencumbered. The Amended Credit Facility does not place any specific restrictions on the Companys ability to issue debt secured by these newly unencumbered assets. In addition, subject to the restrictions of its Amended Credit Facility, the Company could raise additional capital by issuing unsecured debt, equity or equity like securities, monetizing or borrowing against certain assets or refinancing existing obligations to generate net cash proceeds. However, the availability and capacity of these funding sources cannot be assured or predicted. Credit Ratings. As part of its exit from bankruptcy, United and UAL received a corporate credit rating of B (outlook stable) from Standard & Poors and a corporate family rating of B2 (outlook stable) from Moodys Investors Services. These credit ratings are below investment grade levels. Downgrades from these rating levels could restrict the availability and or increase the cost of future financing for the Company. Other Information Foreign Operations. The Companys Statements of Consolidated Financial Position reflect material amounts of intangible assets related to the Companys Pacific and Latin American route authorities, and its hub at Londons Heathrow Airport. See Note 2(k), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Intangibles, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Because operating authorities in international markets are governed by bilateral aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign countries, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies can lead to the alteration or termination of existing air service agreements that could adversely impact, and significantly impair, the value of our international route authorities. Significant changes in such policies could also have a material impact on the Companys operating revenues and expenses and results of operations. See Item 1. Business International Regulation for further information and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures above Market Risk for further information on the Companys foreign currency risks associated with its foreign operations. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are affected by significant judgments and uncertainties which potentially could result in materially different accounting under different assumptions and conditions. The Company has prepared the accompanying financial statements in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policies that impact the preparation of these financial statements. Passenger Revenue Recognition. The value of unused passenger tickets and miscellaneous charge orders (MCOs) is included in current liabilities as advance ticket sales. United records passenger ticket sales as operating revenues when the transportation is provided or when the ticket expires. Non refundable 51 tickets generally expire on the date of the intended flight, unless the date is extended by notification from the customer on or before the intended flight date. Fees charged in association with changes or extensions to non refundable tickets are recorded as passenger revenue at the time the fee is incurred. Change fees related to non refundable tickets are considered a separate transaction from the air transportation because they represent a charge for the Companys additional service to modify a previous reservation. Therefore, the pricing of the change fee and the initial customer reservation are separately determined and represent distinct earnings processes. Refundable tickets expire after one year. MCOs are stored value documents that are either exchanged for a passenger ticket or refunded after issuance. United records an estimate of MCOs that will not be exchanged or refunded as revenue ratably over the validity period based on historical results. Due to complex industry pricing structures, refund and exchange policies, and interline agreements with other airlines, certain amounts are recognized as revenue using estimates both as to the timing of recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized. These estimates are based on the evaluation of actual historical results. Accounting for Long Lived Assets. The Company has $11.5 billion in net book value of operating property and equipment at December 31, 2006. In addition to the original cost of these assets, as adjusted by fresh start reporting at February 1, 2006, their recorded value is impacted by a number of accounting policy elections, including the estimation of useful lives and residual values and, when necessary, the recognition of asset impairment charges. Except for the adoption of fresh start reporting at February 1, 2006, whereby the Company remeasured long lived assets at fair value, it is the Companys policy to record assets acquired, including aircraft, at acquisition cost. Depreciable life is determined through economic analysis, such as reviewing existing fleet plans, obtaining appraisals and comparing estimated lives to other airlines that operate similar fleets. Older generation aircraft are assigned lives that are generally consistent with the experience of United and the practice of other airlines. As aircraft technology has improved, useful life has increased and the Company has generally estimated the lives of those aircraft to be 30 years. Residual values are estimated based on historical experience with regards to the sale of both aircraft and spare parts, and are established in conjunction with the estimated useful lives of the related fleets. Residual values are based on current dollars when the aircraft are acquired and typically reflect asset values that have not reached the end of their physical life. Both depreciable lives and residual values are revised periodically to recognize changes in the Companys fleet plan and other relevant information. A one year increase in the average depreciable life of our aircraft would reduce annual depreciation expense by approximately $19 million. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the Company evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. The Companys policy is to recognize an impairment charge when an assets carrying value exceeds its net undiscounted future cash flows and its fair market value. The amount of the charge is the difference between the assets book value and fair market value (sometimes estimated using appraisals). More often, the Company estimates the undiscounted future cash flows for its various aircraft with financial models used by the Company to make fleet and scheduling decisions. These models utilize projections on passenger yield, fuel costs, labor costs and other relevant factors, many of which require the exercise of significant judgment on the part of management. Changes in these projections may expose the Company to future impairment charges by raising the threshold which future cash flows need to meet. The Company recognized impairment charges on assets held for sale of $5 million in 2006 and $18 million for the early retirement of certain aircraft in 2005. See Note 2(l), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Measurement of Impairments and Note 19, Special Items, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 2(f), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Operating Property and Equipment, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Uniteds policies on accounting for long lived assets. 52 Fresh Start Reporting. In connection with its emergence from Chapter 11 protection as of February 1, 2006, the Company adopted fresh start reporting in accordance with SOP 90 7. Accordingly, UALs assets, liabilities and equity were valued at their respective fair values as of the Effective Date. The excess reorganization value over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities has been reflected as goodwill in the accompanying Statements of Consolidated Financial Position. Fair values of assets and liabilities represent the Companys best estimates based on independent appraisals and valuations and, where the foregoing are not available, industry data and trends and by reference to relevant market rates and transactions. Accordingly, the Company cannot provide assurance that the estimates, assumptions, and values reflected in the asset and liability valuations will be realized, and actual results could vary materially from those estimates. In accordance with SFAS 141, the preliminary measurement and allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities was subject to additional adjustment within one year after emergence from bankruptcy to provide the Company time to complete its valuation of its assets and liabilities. See Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Fresh Start Reporting, and Note 2(k), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Intangibles in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the fresh start fair value adjustments. To facilitate the calculation of the enterprise value of the Successor Company, a set of financial projections were developed. Based on these financial projections, the equity value was estimated by the Company using various valuation methods, including (i) a comparison of the Company and its projected performance to the market values of comparable companies, (ii) a review and analysis of several recent transactions of companies in similar industries to the Company, and (iii) a calculation of the present value of projected future cash flows using the Companys financial projections. The estimated enterprise value and corresponding equity value are highly dependent upon achieving the future financial results set forth in the projections as well as the realization of certain other assumptions that cannot be guaranteed. The estimated equity value of the Company was calculated to be approximately $1.9 billion. The foregoing estimates and assumptions are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies beyond the reasonable control of the Company. Moreover, the market value of the Companys common stock may differ materially from the fresh start equity valuation. Frequent Flyer Accounting. In accordance with fresh start reporting, the Company revalued its frequent flyer obligation to estimated fair value at the Effective Date, which resulted in a $2.4 billion increase to the frequent flyer obligation. The Successor Company also has elected to change its accounting policy for its Mileage Plus frequent flyer program to a deferred revenue model. The Company believes that accounting for frequent flyer miles using a deferred revenue model is preferable, as it establishes a consistent valuation methodology for both miles earned by frequent flyers and miles sold to non airline business partners. Before the Effective Date, the Predecessor Company had used the historical industry practice of accounting for frequent flyer miles earned on United flights on an incremental cost basis as an accrued liability and as advertising expense, while miles sold to non airline business partners were accounted for on a deferred revenue basis. As of the Effective Date, the deferred revenue value of all frequent flyer miles are measured using equivalent ticket value as described below, and all associated adjustments are made to passenger revenues. The deferred revenue measurement method used to record fair value of the frequent flyer obligation on and after the Effective Date was to allocate an equivalent weighted average ticket value to each outstanding mile, based upon projected redemption patterns for available award choices when such miles are consumed. Such value was estimated assuming redemptions on both United and other participating carriers in the Mileage Plus program, and by estimating the relative proportions of awards to be redeemed by class of service within broad geographic regions of the Companys operations, including North America, Atlantic, Pacific and Latin America. 53 Under the new method of accounting adopted for this program at the Effective Date, the Company reduced operating revenue by approximately $158 million more in the eleven months ended December 31, 2006 to account for the effects of the program as compared to the reduction in revenues that would have been recognized using the Predecessor Companys accounting method. The Companys new accounting policy does not continue the use of the former incremental cost method, which impacted revenues and advertising expense under that prior policy. Assuming the use of the Predecessor Companys accounting for this program, for the eleven months ended December 31, 2006, the Company estimates that it would have recorded approximately $27 million of additional advertising expense. The estimation of the fair value of each award mile requires the use of several significant assumptions, for which significant management judgment is required. For example, management must estimate how many miles are projected to be redeemed on United, versus on other airline partners. Since the equivalent ticket value of miles redeemed on United and on other carriers can vary greatly, this assumption can materially affect the calculation of the weighted average ticket value from period to period. Management must also estimate the expected redemption patterns of Mileage Plus customers, who have a number of different award choices when redeeming their miles, each of which can have materially different estimated fair values. Such choices include different classes of service (first, business and several coach award levels), as well as different flight itineraries, such as domestic and international routings, and different itineraries within domestic and international regions of Uniteds and other participating carriers flight networks. Customer redemption patterns may also be influenced by program changes, which occur from time to time and introduce new award choices, or make material changes to the terms of existing award choices. Management must often estimate the probable impact of such program changes on future customer behavior using limited data, which requires the use of significant judgment. Management uses historical customer redemption patterns as the best single indicator of future redemption behavior in making its estimates, but changes in customer mileage redemption behavior to patterns which are not consistent with historical behavior can result in material changes to deferred revenue balances, and to recognized revenue. Managements estimate of the expected breakage of miles as of the fresh start date, and for recognition of breakage post emergence, also requires significant management judgment. For customer accounts which are inactive for a period of 36 consecutive months, it has been Uniteds policy to cancel all miles contained in those accounts at the end of the 36 month period of inactivity. In early 2007, the Company announced that it is reducing the expiration period from 36 months to 18 months effective December 31, 2007. Under its deferred revenue accounting policy effective in 2006, the Company recognized revenue from breakage of miles by amortizing such estimated breakage over the 36 month expiration period. However, current and future changes to program rules, such as the recent change in the expiration period, and program redemption opportunities can significantly alter customer behavior from historical patterns with respect to inactive accounts. Such changes may result in material changes to the deferred revenue balance, as well as recognized revenues from the program. A hypothetical 1% change in the Companys estimated breakage rate, estimated at 14% annually as of December 31, 2006, has approximately an $18 million effect on the liability. At December 31, 2006, the Companys outstanding number of miles was approximately 508.8 billion. The Company estimates that approximately 438.3 billion of these miles will ultimately be redeemed based on assumptions as of December 31, 2006 and, accordingly, has recorded deferred revenue of $3.7 billion. A hypothetical 1% change in the Companys outstanding number of miles or the weighted average ticket value has approximately a $42 million effect on the liability. These assumptions do not include the impact of reducing the expiration period from 36 months to 18 months. Goodwill and Intangible Assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), the Company applies a fair value based 54 impairment test to the book value of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis and, if certain events or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred, on an interim basis. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position and results of operations in the period of recognition. Upon the implementation of fresh start reporting (see Note 1, Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Fresh Start Reporting, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) the Companys assets, liabilities and equity were valued at their respective fair values. The excess of reorganization value over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities has been reflected as goodwill in the accompanying Statements of Consolidated Financial Position on the Effective Date. As discussed in Note 9, Segment Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the entire goodwill amount of $2.7 billion at December 31, 2006 has been allocated to the mainline reportable segment. In addition, the adoption of fresh start reporting resulted in the recognition of $2.2 billion of indefinite lived intangible assets. SFAS 142 requires that a two step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of the reportable segment to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reportable segment exceeds the carrying value of the net assets of the reportable segment, goodwill is not impaired and the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets of the reportable segment exceeds the fair value of the reportable segment, then the Company must perform the second step to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the Company must record an impairment charge equal to such difference. The Company assessed the fair value of its reportable segments considering both the market and income approaches. Under the market approach, the fair value of the reportable segment is based on quoted market prices and recent transaction values of peer companies. Under the income approach, the fair value of the reportable segment is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The income approach is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future capacity, passenger yield, traffic, operating costs, appropriate discount rates and other relevant factors. The Company performed its annual impairment test for its goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets as of October 1, 2006. To estimate the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets the Company used the market and income approaches, discussed above, and the cost method, which uses the concept of replacement cost as an indicator of fair value. The Company did not identify any impairments in these assets. Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting. The Company accounts for other postretirement benefits using Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS 106) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS 158). For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158, which requires the Company to recognize the difference between plan assets and obligations, or the plans funded status, in its Statements of Consolidated Financial Position. Under these accounting standards, other postretirement benefit expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods and is generally calculated independently of funding decisions or requirements. The Company has not been required to pre fund its current and future plan obligations resulting in a significant net obligation, as discussed below. The fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2006 was $54 million for the other postretirement benefit plans. The benefit obligation was $2.1 billion for the other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2006. The difference between the plan assets and obligations has been recorded in the Statements of Consolidated Financial Position at December 31, 2006. Detailed information regarding the 55 Companys other postretirement plans, including key assumptions, is included in Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following provides a summary of the methodology to determine the assumptions used in Note 8, Retirement and Postretirement Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The calculation of other postretirement benefit expense and obligations requires the use of a number of assumptions, including the assumed discount rate for measuring future payment obligations and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates were based on the construction of theoretical bond portfolios, adjusted according to the timing of expected cash flows for the Companys future postretirement obligations. A yield curve was developed based on a subset of these bonds (those with yields between the 40th and 90th percentiles). The projected cash flows were matched to this yield curve and a present value developed, which was then calibrated to develop a single equivalent discount rate. The expected return on plan assets is based on an evaluation of the historical behavior of the broad financial markets and the Companys investment portfolio, taking into consideration input from the plans investment consultant and actuary regarding expected long term market conditions and investment management performance. The Company believes that the long term asset allocation on average will approximate the targeted allocation and it regularly reviews the actual asset allocation to periodically rebalance the investments to the targeted allocation when appropriate. Other postretirement expense is reduced by the expected return on plan assets, which is measured by assuming that the market related value of plan assets increases at the expected rate of return. The market related value is a calculated value that phases in differences between the expected rate of return and the actual return over a period of five years. Actuarial gains or losses are triggered by changes in assumptions or experience that differ from the original assumptions. Under the applicable accounting standards, those gains and losses are not required to be recognized currently as other postretirement expense, but instead may be deferred as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and amortized into expense over the average remaining service life of the covered active employees. At December 31, 2006, the Company had unrecognized actuarial gains of $120 million for the other postretirement benefit plans recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets. The Company initially recorded a tax valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets in the third quarter of 2002. In recording the valuation allowance, management considered whether it was more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets would be realized. This analysis included consideration of scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, carry back potential and tax planning strategies, in accordance with SFAS 109. At December 31, 2006, our valuation allowance totaled $2.2 billion. See also Note 6, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes. During the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, the Company identified a deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting associated with tax accounting which constituted a material weakness. While the Company had appropriately designed control procedures, high staff turnover caused the Company to poorly execute those control procedures for evaluating and recording its current and deferred income tax provision and related deferred taxes balances. This control deficiency did not result in a material misstatement, but did result in adjustments to the deferred tax assets and liabilities, net operating losses, valuation allowance and footnote disclosures and could have resulted in a misstatement of current and deferred income taxes and related disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements. We have and are continuing to take steps to remediate this material weakness, including the hiring of several tax professionals, as well as implementing a more rigorous review process of tax accounting and disclosure matters. Additional review, evaluation and oversight have been undertaken to ensure our 56 consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and, as a result, we have concluded that the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10 K fairly present, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. See also Note 6, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. New Accounting Pronouncements. For detailed information, see Note 2(p), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies New Accounting Pronouncements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Forward Looking Information Certain statements throughout Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report are forward looking and thus reflect the Companys current expectations and beliefs with respect to certain current and future events and financial performance. Such forward looking statements are and will be subject to many risks and uncertainties relating to Uniteds operations and business environment that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in such forward looking statements. Words such as expects, will, plans, anticipates, indicates, believes, forecast, guidance, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Additionally, forward looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as statements which identify uncertainties or trends, discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties, or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. The Companys actual results could differ materially from these forward looking statements due to numerous factors including, without limitation, the following: its ability to comply with the terms of financing arrangements; the costs and availability of financing; its ability to execute its business plan; its ability to realize benefits from its resource optimization efforts and cost reduction initiatives; its ability to utilize its net operating losses; its ability to attract, motivate and or retain key employees; its ability to attract and retain customers; demand for transportation in the markets in which it operates; general economic conditions (including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, crude oil prices, costs of aviation fuel and refining capacity in relevant markets); its ability to cost effectively hedge against increases in the price of aviation fuel; the effects of any hostilities, act of war or terrorist attack; the ability of other air carriers with whom the Company has alliances or partnerships to provide the services contemplated by the respective arrangements with such carriers; the costs and availability of aircraft insurance; the costs associated with security measures and practices; labor costs; competitive pressures on pricing (particularly from lower cost competitors) and on demand; capacity decisions of its competitors; U.S. or foreign governmental legislation, regulation and other actions; its ability to maintain satisfactory labor relations; any disruptions to operations due to any potential actions by its labor groups; weather conditions; and other risks and uncertainties set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10 K, as well as other risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in the reports the Company files with the SEC. Consequently, the forward looking statements should not be regarded as representations or warranties by the Company that such matters will be realized. 57 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks Uniteds exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short term investments. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. Uniteds policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. A portion of Uniteds capital lease obligations ($537 million in equivalent U.S. dollars at December 31, 2006) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose us to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. To hedge against some of this risk, United has placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in those respective currencies. Since unrealized mark to market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, United reduces its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. The fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. The fair value of long term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of future cash flows using a U.S. Treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread. The table below presents information as of December 31, 2006 about certain of the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. 2006 Expected Maturity Dates Fair (Dollars in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Value ASSETS Cash equivalents Fixed rate $ 3,832 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,832 $ 3,832 Avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % Short term investments Fixed rate $ 312 $ $ $ $ $ $ 312 $ 312 Avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % Lease deposits Fixed rate EUR deposits $ 74 $ 132 $ 22 $ 215 $ 14 $ $ 457 $ 454 Accrued interest 13 22 2 23 4 64 Avg. interest rate 5.42 % 4.93 % 4.34 % 6.66 % 4.41 % 6.56 % Fixed rate USD deposits $ $ $ $ 11 $ $ $ 11 $ 19 Accrued interest 7 7 Avg. interest rate 6.49 % 6.49 % LONG TERM DEBT U. S. Dollar denominated Variable rate debt $ 183 $ 238 $ 212 $ 281 $ 205 $ 3,610 $ 4,729 $ 4,695 Avg. interest rate 6.69 % 6.19 % 6.61 % 6.05 % 6.74 % 8.45 % 7.97 % Fixed rate debt $ 532 $ 446 $ 547 $ 660 $ 631 $ 1,842 $ 4,658 4,815 Avg. interest rate 6.52 % 6.55 % 6.53 % 6.53 % 6.47 % 5.74 % 6.21 % In addition to the cash equivalents and short term investments included in the table above, the Company has $341 million of short term restricted cash and $506 million of long term restricted cash at December 31, 2006. As discussed in Note 2(d), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Cash and Cash Equivalents, Short Term Investments and Restricted Cash in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, this cash is being held in restricted accounts for workers compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process Uniteds credit card ticket sales. Due to the short term nature of these cash balances, the carrying values approximate the fair values. The Companys interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. 58 In the first quarter of 2006, United entered into an interest rate swap whereby it fixed the rate of interest on $2.45 billion notional value of floating rate debt at 5.14% plus a fixed credit margin. The swap had a fair value of negative $12 million at December 31, 2006. In January 2007, United terminated the swap. The termination value of the swap was negative $4 million due to an $8 million increase in fair value from December 31, 2006 to the termination date. See Note 14, Financial Instruments and Risk Management Interest Rate Swap, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In February 2007, the Company completed a prepayment of a portion of its Credit Facility debt. This prepayment reduces the Companys variable rate debt maturities in the table above by $972 million ($10 million in each of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and $932 million thereafter). See Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel) United enters into fuel option contracts and futures contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. These contracts are designed to provide protection against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel. The Company may update its hedging strategy in response to changes in market conditions. The fair value of the Companys fuel related derivatives was a negative $2 million at December 31, 2006. These instruments have a maturity of less than one year. Foreign Currency United generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Companys results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency denominated operating revenues and expenses. Despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S. originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the Companys foreign currency denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency denominated operating expense for each currency. Likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S. originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income. The Companys biggest net foreign currency exposures in 2006 were typically for the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Australian dollar, British pound, Korean won, European euro, Hong Kong dollar and Japanese yen. The table below sets forth the Companys net exposure to various currencies for 2006: (In millions) Operating revenue net of operating expense Currency Foreign Currency Value USD Value Canadian dollar 278 $ 245 Chinese renminbi 1,735 218 Australian dollar 163 122 British pound 54 98 Korean won 93,521 98 European euro 77 97 Hong Kong dollar 737 95 Japanese yen 8,459 72 At December 31, 2006, the Company did not have any foreign currency derivative instruments. 59 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report are forward looking and thus reflect the Companys current expectations and beliefs with respect to certain current and future events and financial performance. Such forward looking statements are and will be subject to many risks and uncertainties relating to Uniteds operations and business environment that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in such forward looking statements. Words such as expects, will, plans, anticipates, indicates, believes, forecast, guidance, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Additionally, forward looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as statements which identify uncertainties or trends, discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties, or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. The Companys actual results could differ materially from these forward looking statements due to numerous factors including, without limitation, the following: its ability to comply with the terms of financing arrangements; the costs and availability of financing; its ability to execute its business plan; its ability to realize benefits from its resource optimization efforts and cost reduction initiatives; its ability to utilize its net operating losses; its ability to attract, motivate and or retain key employees; its ability to attract and retain customers; demand for transportation in the markets in which it operates; general economic conditions (including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, crude oil prices, costs of aviation fuel and refining capacity in relevant markets); its ability to cost effectively hedge against increases in the price of aviation fuel; the effects of any hostilities, act of war or terrorist attack; the ability of other air carriers with whom the Company has alliances or partnerships to provide the services contemplated by the respective arrangements with such carriers; the costs and availability of aircraft insurance; the costs associated with security measures and practices; labor costs; competitive pressures on pricing (particularly from lower cost competitors) and on demand; capacity decisions of its competitors; U.S. or foreign governmental legislation, regulation and other actions; its ability to maintain satisfactory labor relations; any disruptions to operations due to any potential actions by its labor groups; weather conditions; and other risks and uncertainties set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10 K, as well as other risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in the reports the Company files with the SEC. Consequently, the forward looking statements should not be regarded as representations or warranties by the Company that such matters will be realized. 57 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks Uniteds exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short term investments. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. Uniteds policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. A portion of Uniteds capital lease obligations ($537 million in equivalent U.S. dollars at December 31, 2006) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose us to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. To hedge against some of this risk, United has placed foreign currency deposits (primarily for euros) to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in those respective currencies. Since unrealized mark to market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, United reduces its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. The fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. The fair value of long term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of future cash flows using a U.S. Treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread. The table below presents information as of December 31, 2006 about certain of the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. 2006 Expected Maturity Dates Fair (Dollars in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Value ASSETS Cash equivalents Fixed rate $ 3,832 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,832 $ 3,832 Avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % Short term investments Fixed rate $ 312 $ $ $ $ $ $ 312 $ 312 Avg. interest rate 5.32 % 5.32 % Lease deposits Fixed rate EUR deposits $ 74 $ 132 $ 22 $ 215 $ 14 $ $ 457 $ 454 Accrued interest 13 22 2 23 4 64 Avg. interest rate 5.42 % 4.93 % 4.34 % 6.66 % 4.41 % 6.56 % Fixed rate USD deposits $ $ $ $ 11 $ $ $ 11 $ 19 Accrued interest 7 7 Avg. interest rate 6.49 % 6.49 % LONG TERM DEBT U. S. Dollar denominated Variable rate debt $ 183 $ 238 $ 212 $ 281 $ 205 $ 3,610 $ 4,729 $ 4,695 Avg. interest rate 6.69 % 6.19 % 6.61 % 6.05 % 6.74 % 8.45 % 7.97 % Fixed rate debt $ 532 $ 446 $ 547 $ 660 $ 631 $ 1,842 $ 4,658 4,815 Avg. interest rate 6.52 % 6.55 % 6.53 % 6.53 % 6.47 % 5.74 % 6.21 % In addition to the cash equivalents and short term investments included in the table above, the Company has $341 million of short term restricted cash and $506 million of long term restricted cash at December 31, 2006. As discussed in Note 2(d), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Cash and Cash Equivalents, Short Term Investments and Restricted Cash in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, this cash is being held in restricted accounts for workers compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process Uniteds credit card ticket sales. Due to the short term nature of these cash balances, the carrying values approximate the fair values. The Companys interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. 58 In the first quarter of 2006, United entered into an interest rate swap whereby it fixed the rate of interest on $2.45 billion notional value of floating rate debt at 5.14% plus a fixed credit margin. The swap had a fair value of negative $12 million at December 31, 2006. In January 2007, United terminated the swap. The termination value of the swap was negative $4 million due to an $8 million increase in fair value from December 31, 2006 to the termination date. See Note 14, Financial Instruments and Risk Management Interest Rate Swap, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In February 2007, the Company completed a prepayment of a portion of its Credit Facility debt. This prepayment reduces the Companys variable rate debt maturities in the table above by $972 million ($10 million in each of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and $932 million thereafter). See Note 11, Debt Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel) United enters into fuel option contracts and futures contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. These contracts are designed to provide protection against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel. The Company may update its hedging strategy in response to changes in market conditions. The fair value of the Companys fuel related derivatives was a negative $2 million at December 31, 2006. These instruments have a maturity of less than one year. Foreign Currency United generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Companys results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency denominated operating revenues and expenses. Despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S. originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the Companys foreign currency denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency denominated operating expense for each currency. Likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S. originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income. The Companys biggest net foreign currency exposures in 2006 were typically for the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Australian dollar, British pound, Korean won, European euro, Hong Kong dollar and Japanese yen. The table below sets forth the Companys net exposure to various currencies for 2006: (In millions) Operating revenue net of operating expense Currency Foreign Currency Value USD Value Canadian dollar 278 $ 245 Chinese renminbi 1,735 218 Australian dollar 163 122 British pound 54 98 Korean won 93,521 98 European euro 77 97 Hong Kong dollar 737 95 Japanese yen 8,459 72 At December 31, 2006, the Company did not have any foreign currency derivative instruments. 59 
</SECTION>
