<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: CYTOGENIX INC
CIK: 0001005302
SIC: 8071
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070330
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OR PLAN OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION This report contains forward looking statements regarding the Companys plans, expectations, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in, or implied by, these forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are identified by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward looking statements. The Company has based these forward looking statements largely on its expectations. Forward looking statements in this report include, but are not necessarily limited to, those relating to the Companys: o intention to introduce new products, o receipt of any required FDA or other regulatory approval for its products, o expectations about the markets for its products, 28 o acceptance of its products, when introduced, in the marketplace, o future capital needs, and o success of its patent applications. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond the Companys control. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of the factors described in the "Risk Factors" and detailed in the Companys other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including among others: o the effect of regulation by the FDA and other governmental agencies, o delays in obtaining, or its inability to obtain, approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for its products, o research and development efforts, including delays in developing, or the failure to develop, its products, o the development of competing or more effective products by other parties, o the results of pre clinical and clinical testing, o uncertainty of market of acceptance of its products, o problems that it may face in manufacturing, marketing, and distributing its products, o inability to raise additional capital when needed, o delays in the issuance of, or the failure to obtain, patents for certain of its products and technologies, and o problems with important suppliers and business partners. Because of these risks and uncertainties, the forward looking events and circumstances discussed in this report or incorporated by reference might not transpire. Factors that cause actual results or conditions to differ from those anticipated by these and other forward looking statements include those more fully described in the "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this report. OVERVIEW From its inception in 1995, the Company has devoted its resources primarily to fund its research and development efforts. The Company has been unprofitable since inception and, other than limited interest and grant revenue, has had minimal revenues from the sale of products and other sources. The Company anticipates an increase in revenues for 2007. The Company expects to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as it continues to expand its research and development efforts and enter additional collaborative efforts. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys accumulated deficit was $27,153,588. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company reported a net loss of $4,095,534, or less than $0.03 per share, and $76,993 of revenue as compared with a net loss of $3,533,125, or less than $0.03 per share, and no revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. 29 Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased approximately 28% to $2,199,148 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 compared to $1,724,317 for the same period in 2005 primarily due to increased research activity and consultant assistance in obtaining communications with several federal agencies of the US Government. Approximately $310,660 of the additional amount results from the increased activity costs of antibacterial and DNA vaccine research and the remaining $164,171 of the increase were additional costs incurred for R&D consultants. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased to $1,534,830 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 compared to $1,495,454 for the same period in 2005. The increase of $39,376 is due primarily to the increased costs in accounting fees for Sarbanes Oxley compliance. Consulting Expenses. Consulting expenses increased to $345,637 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 compared to $290,000 for the same period in 2005. This increase is primarily attributed to the services of Jacobs Engineering relating to the proposed construction of office and manufacturing facility. Other costs included commissions paid for synDNA(TM) sales referrals and consulting cost used to evaluate development of existing research platforms and business directives for the Company. In 2006 the Company issued 320,000 shares of common stock valued at $.86 per share for services for preparing and coordinating with the Company and others in the development of business plans, investor presentations, and financial models, which represents $275,200 of the $345,637. In 2005, the Company issued 500,000 shares of common stock valued at $.58 per share for service for preparing and coordinating with the Company and others in the development of business plans, investor presentations, and financial models, which represents the entire $290,000. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased to $48,754 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 compared to $25,391 for the same period in 2005 primarily due to equipment purchased to expand the lab to accommodate synDNA(TM) sales production. In 2006, the Company also installed a new server to optimize security and data retention. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company reported a net loss of $3,533,125, or less than $0.03 per share, and no revenue as compared with a net loss of $2,365,376, or less than $0.02 per share, and no revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased to $1,724,317 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 compared to $831,472 for the same period in 2004 primarily due to hiring of additional R&D employees and increased research activity. Approximately $673,000 of the increase is a result of the increased staff and the remaining $220,000 of the increase results from the increased activity cost of antibacterial and DNA vaccine research. 30 General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased to $1,495,454 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 compared to $1,434,893 for the same period in 2004. The increase includes an increase in legal fees of $244,000, of which $199,000 is due to increased patent attorney fees and litigation fees for the legal proceeding described in Part II, Item 3 above. An increase in staff along with increases in officer salaries contributed to an increase of $305,000 in payroll costs. These costs were offset by a decrease in third party investor relations and advertising fees of approximately $489,000. Consulting Expenses. Consulting expenses increased to $290,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 compared to $60,926 for the same period in 2004. This increase is primarily attributed to a one year consulting contract where CytoGenix engaged a firm to consult on various investor relations and financial business matters. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased to $25,391 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 compared to $38,125 for the same period in 2004 primarily due to office furnishings purchased in previous years becoming fully depreciated in 2005. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company has financed its operations since inception primarily through equity sales totaling $17,000,000, and from grants and contract research funding of $200,000 from various sources. The Company expects to continue to incur losses as it expands its research and development activities and related regulatory work and increases its collaborative efforts. For 2007, the Company expects expenditures for operations, including its collaborative efforts, and its building of a GMP facility to be approximately $5 to $6 million. The increase compared to 2006 expenditures is expected to result from the purchase of an additional building for the GMP facility coupled with additional production staff and expansion of preclinical product development efforts. However, if need be in 2007, the Company could reduce its expenditures because the vast majority of its costs are variable. Those estimated expenditures include amounts necessary to fulfill its obligations under various collaborative, research and licensing agreements during 2007. On December 4, 2006, Lawrence Wunderlich, the Companys former Chief Financial Officer and a former director, and Frank Vazquez, the Companys former chief operating officer and a former director, filed a complaint with the American Arbitration Association to recover over $800,000 in severance payments that they allege the Company owes them. In the event Messrs. Wunderlich and Vazquez are successful in their claims against the Company or the dispute continues for a lengthy period of time, which would result in the Company incurring additional legal fees defending itself, it would have a material adverse impact on the liquidity of the Company. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings for a more detailed description of this dispute. Because of the cost (up to $1.7 billion) and timeframe (up to 15 years) traditionally associated with developing a potential drug or pharmaceutical product to where FDA approval for human sales is received, the Companys business strategy is to develop its products to initial Phase III human clinical 31 trials and look for third parties to fund completion of development of the product and market the product through strategic partnerships, license agreements or other relationships. The Company also looks for collaborative and other efforts utilizing its technology to increase shareholder value. The Company currently uses this strategy to limit the potential cost the Company would incur in developing a product. The Companys expected costs under our various contracts and for various drug development products can be estimated for the next year or two, but not much beyond that due to the uncertainty of clinical trial results and research results. Because of the various factors noted above and the expectation that, until the Company establishes revenue sources, the Company will license to, or jointly develop its prospective products with, strategic partners, the Company reviews, at least annually, each research program and clinical trial, based on results and progress during the prior year and estimates its needs for that program or trial for the coming year, making adjustments based on the progress of the program during the year. The Company does not set long term development budgets or development schedules for bringing its products to market or track its research costs on a product basis. Cash and cash equivalents were $2,854,197 at December 31, 2006, compared with $1,307,965 at December 31, 2005. The increase of $1,546,232 was due primarily to net proceeds from a private placement of 10,369,990 shares of its common stock at $.40 per share. The sale closed November 30, 2006. The securities were sold in a private placement to accredited investors pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. To fund operations in 2007 and beyond the Company will need to raise additional capital. The Company will continue to look for opportunities to finance its ongoing activities and operations through accessing corporate partners or the equity markets, as the Company currently has no credit facility, nor does the Company currently intend to seek one. CONTRACTUAL PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS The Companys off balance sheet arrangements are limited to rents on its primary facility. These off balance sheet arrangements are expensed as incurred. A summary of contractual commitments and obligations as of December 31, 2006 is as follows: PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION Total 2007 2008 2009 Operating leases $ 228,390 $ 74,806 $ 76,792 $ 76,792 GSL Earnest Money Contract $3,322,315 $ 474,572 $2,847,743 $ The Companys future expenditures and capital requirements depend on numerous factors, most of which are difficult to project beyond the short term, including, without limitation, the progress of research and development programs, the progress of pre clinical and clinical trials, the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, its ability to establish collaborative arrangements and the terms of any such arrangements, and the costs associated with commercialization of its products. Cash requirements 32 are expected to continue to increase each year as the Company expands its activities and operations. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will ever be able to generate product revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Management is currently evaluating the impact SFAS No. 157 will have on the Companys financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB statement No. 115." This Statement permits all entities to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible items at fair value (the "fair value option"). A business entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings (or another performance indicator if the business entity does not report earnings) at each subsequent reporting date. Upfront costs and fees related to items for which the fair value option is elected shall be recognized in earnings as incurred and not deferred. If an entity elects the fair value option for a held to maturity or available for sale security in conjunction with the adoption of this Statement, that security shall be reported as a trading security under Statement 115, but the accounting for a transfer to the trading category under paragraph 15(b) of Statement 115 does not apply. Electing the fair value option for an existing held to maturity security will not call into question the intent of an entity to hold other debt securities to maturity in the future. This statement is effective as of the first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The Company is currently analyzing the effects of SFAS 159 but does not expect its implementation will have a significant impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48 Accounting for Uncertainly in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 prescribes detailed guidance for the financial statement recognition, measurement, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold at the effective date to be recognized upon the adoption of FIN 48 and in subsequent periods. FIN 48 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and the provisions of FIN 48 will be applied to all positions upon the adoption of the Interpretation. The cumulative effect of this applying the provisions of this Interpretation will be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for that fiscal year. Management is currently evaluating the impact of FIN 48 on the financial statements but does not believe that its adoption will have a material effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when quantifying Misstatements in 33 Current Year Financial Statements ("SAB 108"). SAB 108 requires companies to evaluate the materiality of identified unadjusted errors on each financial statement and related financial statement disclosure using both the rollover approach and the iron curtain approach, as those terms are defined in SAB 108. The rollover approach quantifies misstatements based on the amount of the error in the current year financial statement, whereas the iron curtain approach quantifies misstatements based on the effects of correcting the misstatement existing in the balance sheet at the end of the current year, irrespective of the misstatements year(s) of origin. Financial statements would require adjustment when either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that is material. Correcting prior year financial statements for immaterial errors would not require previously filed reports to be amended. If a Company determines that an adjustment to prior year financial statements is required upon adoption of SAB 108 and does not elect to restate its previous financial statements, then it must recognize the cumulative effect of applying SAB 108 in fiscal 2006 beginning balances of the affected assets and liabilities with a corresponding adjustment to the fiscal 2006 opening balance in retained earnings. SAB 108 is effective for interim periods of the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006, and will be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of 2007. The Company does not expect the adoption of this interpretation to have an impact on its financial position or results of operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to valuation of investments, long lived assets, and revenue recognition. The Company bases their estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of its financial statements. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid, temporary cash investments having original maturity dates of three months or less. For reporting purposes, such cash equivalents are stated at cost plus accrued interest which approximates fair value. Accounts Receivable The companys accounts receivable primarily consist of trade receivables. Management reviews accounts receivable on a monthly basis to determine if any receivables will potentially be uncollectible. The company includes any accounts receivable balances that are determined to be uncollectible in its allowance for doubtful accounts. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005 the allowance for doubtful accounts is zero. Inventory 34 Inventory includes raw materials (liquid buffers and enzyme mix) that are used to produce enzymatically synthesized DNA (synDNA(TM)). Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined using the first in, first out ("FIFO") method. Reserves are established for excess or obsolete inventories. Inventory is included in the cost of revenue when sold. Property and Equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost and depreciation is computed using the straight line method over the useful lives of the assets. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized; minor replacements, maintenance and repairs are charged to current operations. Impairment of Long lived Assets CytoGenix performs reviews for the impairment of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment of or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, sets forth guidance as to when to recognize an impairment of long lived assets and how to measure such impairment. The standards require certain assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Revenue Recognition CytoGenixs revenues are primarily derived from selling synDNA(TM). CytoGenix recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is probable. Research and Development Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development costs include salaries and personnel related costs, supplies and materials, facility costs, depreciation of facility property, and outside services required to conduct the preclinical development. Income Taxes The asset and liability approach is used to account for income taxes by recognizing deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. CytoGenix records a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Earnings Per Common Share 35 Basic and diluted net loss per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period presented Stock Based Compensation Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised), "Share Based Payment" (SFAS 123(R)) utilizing the modified prospective approach. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) we accounted for stock option grant in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and accordingly, recognized compensation expense for stock option grants using the intrinsic value method. Under the modified prospective approach, SFAS 123(R) applies to new awards and to awards that were outstanding on January 1, 2006 that are subsequently modified, repurchased or cancelled. Under the modified prospective approach, compensation cost recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 includes compensation cost for all share based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, and compensation cost for all share based payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). For all quarters after the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compensation costs recognized will include compensation costs for all share based payments granted based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). As of December 31, 2006 no options have been granted. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK As of December 31, 2006 the Company has a restricted long term CD investment for the Waldroff litigation matter discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements. Pending appeal of this case CytoGenix has established a long term CD in the amount of $115,500 to comply. This CD earns interest at a rate of 3.4% annually. This CD must be maintained until a mandate is issued by the 1st Court of Appeals. Only upon issuance of the mandate can we petition for the refund of the CD. 36 
</SECTION>
