<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: DIME COMMUNITY BANCSHARES INC
CIK: 0001005409
SIC: 6035
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). Within total deposits at December 31, 2006, $356.6 million, or 17.8%, consisted of CDs with a minimum denomination of one hundred thousand dollars. Individual Retirement Accounts totaled $106.5 million, or 5.3% of total deposits. The Bank is authorized to accept brokered CDs up to an aggregate limit of $120.0 million. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Bank had no brokered CDs. F 18 The following table presents the deposit activity of the Bank for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in Thousands) Deposits $1,826,641 $2,942,773 $3,445,897 Withdrawals 1,789,552 3,279,191 3,315,462 Deposits (less) greater than Withdrawals $37,089 (336,418) 130,435 Interest credited 56,671 41,141 37,936 Total (decrease) increase in deposits $93,760 $(295,277) $168,371 At December 31, 2006, the Bank had $356.6 million in CDs with a minimum denomination of one hundred thousand dollars as follows: Maturity Period Amount Weighted Average Rate &#160 ; (Dollars in Thousands) Within three months $108,357 4.96% After three but within six months 139,984 5.05 After six but within twelve months 86,649 5.02 After 12 months 21,594 4.09 Total $356,584 4.96% The following table sets forth the distribution of the Banks deposit accounts and the related weighted average interest rates at the dates indicated: At December 31, 2006 At December 31, 2005 At December 31, 2004 Amount Percent of Total Deposits Weighted Average Rate Amount Percent of Total Deposits Weighted Average Rate Amount Percent of Total Deposits Weighted Average Rate (Dollars in Thousands) Savings accounts $298,522 14.86% 0.59% $335,527 17.52% 0.56% $362,656 16.41% 0.56% CDs 1,064,669 53.01 4.76 978,585 51.11 3.50 959,951 43.44 2.52 Money market accounts 514,607 25.62 3.56 464,962 24.28 1.69 749,040 33.89 1.40 NOW and Super NOW accounts 35,519 1.77 1.08 38,697 2.02 1.01 45,178 2.04 1.08 Checking accounts 95,215 4.74 97,001 5.07 93,224 4.22 Totals $2,008,532 100.00% 3.54% $1,914,772 100.00% 2.32% $2,210,049 100.00% 1.68% The following table presents, by interest rate ranges, the dollar amount of CDs outstanding at the dates indicated and the period to maturity of the CDs outstanding at December 31, 2006: Period to Maturity at December 31, 2006 Interest Rate Range One Year or Less Over One Year to Three Years Over Three Years to Five Years Over Five Years Total at December 31, 2006 Total at December 31, 2005 Total at December 31, 2004 (Dollars in Thousands) 2.00% and below $66,764 $2,632 $ $ $69,396 $134,953 $364,871 2.01% to 3.00% 65,319 11,908 174 77,401 187,456 456,019 3.01% to 4.00% 11,449 42,955 9,241 63,645 423,177 69,836 4.01% to 5.00% 128,957 4,890 8,810 142,657 220,750 44,231 5.01% and above 688,520 23,050 711,570 12,249 24,994 Total $961,009 $85,435 $18,225 $ $1,064,669 $978,585 $959,951 Borrowings. The Bank has been a member and shareholder of the FHLBNY since 1980. One of the privileges offered to FHLBNY shareholders is the ability to secure advances from the FHLBNY under various lending programs at competitive interest rates. The Banks borrowing line equaled $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. F 19 The Bank had FHLBNY advances totaling $571.5 million and $531.5 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2006, the Bank maintained sufficient collateral, as defined by the FHLBNY (principally in the form of real estate loans), to secure such Advances. REPOS totaled $120.2 million and $205.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006 and 2005. REPOS involve the delivery of securities to broker dealers as collateral for borrowing transactions. The securities remain registered in the name of the Bank, and are returned upon the maturities of the agreements. Funds to repay the Banks REPOS at maturity are provided primarily by cash received from the maturing securities. Presented below is information concerning REPOS and FHLBNY advances for the periods presented: REPOS: At or for the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in Thousands) Balance outstanding at end of period $120,235 $205,455 $205,584 Average interest cost at end of period 3.54% 2.99% 2.48% Average balance outstanding during the period $134,541 $205,530 $129,426 Average interest cost during the period (a) 1.95%(a) 2.90% 2.34% Carrying value of underlying collateral at end of period $126,830 $213,925 $216,754 Estimated fair value of underlying collateral $126,830 $213,925 $216,754 Maximum balance outstanding at month end during period $205,455 $205,584 $220,649 (a) During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a reduction of $2,176 in interest expense on REPOs that resulted from such borrowings that were prepaid. Excluding this reduction, the average cost of REPOs would have been 3.56% during the year ended December 31, 2006. FHLBNY Advances: At or for the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in Thousands) Balance outstanding at end of period $571,500 $531,500 $506,500 Average interest cost at end of period 4.37% 4.62% 4.21% Weighted average balance outstanding during the period $565,612 $508,583 $515,626 Average interest cost during the period (1) 4.69% 4.49% 4.00% Maximum balance outstanding at month end during period $596,500 $531,500 $534,000 (1) Amounts in the above table exclude the effects of prepayment expenses paid on FHLBNY advances. Including prepayment expenses of $1.4 million paid on FHLBNY advances during the year ended December 31, 2006, the average interest cost on FHLBNY advances was 4.45% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The Bank did not prepay any FHLBNY advances during the years ended December 31, 2005 or 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company engaged in two separate borrowing restructuring transactions. In the initial transaction, the Company restructured $145.0 million of its borrowings in order to lower their average cost. Borrowings with a weighted average cost of 4.46% and a weighted average term to maturity of one year were replaced with borrowings having a weighted average cost of 4.17% and a final maturity of ten years, callable after year one. Since portions of the original borrowings were satisfied at a discount, the Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $43,200 in interest expense related to the prepayment. In the second transaction, the Company restructured $170.0 million of wholesale borrowings. Under this restructuring, $120.0 million of REPOs and $50.0 million in FHLBNY advances were prepaid and replaced. The prepaid borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 4.53%, and were replaced with a combination of REPOs and FHLBNY advances having an initial weighted average interest rate of 3.79%. The replacement FHLBNY advances have a 4.4% fixed rate of interest, a final maturity of ten years and are callable by the FHLBNY after an initial period (the "Lockout Period") of one, two or three years. The replacement REPOs have a ten year maturity and a Lockout Period of either one or two years. During the Lockout Period, the REPOs are variable rate (indexed to 3 month LIBOR), and have embedded interest rate caps and floors that ensure their reset interest rate will not exceed their initial interest rate. After the Lockout Period, if not called by the lender, the REPOs convert to an average fixed rate of 4.90%. The Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $764,000 in interest expense related to the prepayment. F 20 Subsidiary Activities In addition to the Bank, the Holding Companys direct and indirect subsidiaries consist of seven wholly owned corporations, one of which is directly owned by the Holding Company and six of which are directly or indirectly owned by the Bank. DSBW Preferred Funding Corp. is a direct subsidiary of Havemeyer Equities, Inc., which is a direct subsidiary of the Bank. The following table presents an overview of the Holding Companys subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006: Subsidiary Year/ State of Incorporation Primary Business Activities Havemeyer Equities, Inc. 1977 / New York Ownership of DSBW Preferred Funding Corp. Boulevard Funding Corp. 1981 / New York Currently inactive Havemeyer Investments, Inc. 1997 / New York Sale of non FDIC insured investment products DSBW Preferred Funding Corp. 1998 / Delaware Real Estate Investment Trust investing in multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans DSBW Residential Preferred Funding Corp. 1998 / Delaware Real Estate Investment Trust investing in one to four family real estate loans 842 Manhattan Avenue Corp. 1995/ New York Management and ownership of real estate. Currently inactive Dime Reinvestment Corporation 2004 / Delaware Community Development Entity. Currently inactive. Personnel As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 327 full time employees and 82 part time employees. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit, and the Holding Company and all of its subsidiaries consider their relationships with their employees to be good. Federal, State and Local Taxation Federal Taxation The following is a discussion of material tax matters and does not purport to be a comprehensive description of the tax rules applicable to the Company. General. The Bank was last audited by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for its taxable year ended December 31, 1988. For federal income tax purposes, the Company files consolidated income tax returns on a June 30 fiscal year basis using the accrual method of accounting and is subject to federal income taxation in the same manner as other corporations with some exceptions, including particularly the Banks tax reserve for bad debts, discussed below. Tax Bad Debt Reserves. The Bank, as a "large bank" under IRS classifications (i.e., one with assets having an adjusted basis in excess of $500 million), is: (i) unable to make additions to its tax bad debt reserve, (ii) permitted to deduct bad debts only as they occur, and (iii) required to recapture (i.e., take into income) over a multi year period, a portion of the balance of its tax bad debt reserves as of June 30, 1997. Since the Bank has already provided a deferred income tax liability for the bad debt reserve for financial reporting purposes, there was no adverse impact to the Banks financial condition or results of operations from the enactment of the federal legislation that imposed the recapture requirement. Distributions. Non dividend distributions to shareholders of the Bank are considered distributions from the Banks "base year tax bad debt reserve" (i.e., its reserve as of December 31, 1987, to the extent thereof), and then from its supplemental reserve for losses on loans. Non dividend distributions include distributions: (i) in excess of the Banks current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for federal income tax purposes; (ii) for redemption of stock; and (iii) for partial or complete liquidation. An amount based on the total non dividend distributions paid will be included in the Banks taxable income in the year of distribution. Dividends paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be so included in the Banks income. The amount of additional taxable income created from a non dividend distribution is the amount that, when reduced by the amount of the tax attributable to this income, is equal to the amount of the distribution. Thus, assuming a 35% federal corporate income tax rate, approximately one and one half times the amount of such distribution (but not in excess of the amount of the above mentioned reserves) would be includable in income for federal income tax purposes. (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Limitation on Capital Distributions," for a discussion of limits on the payment of dividends by the F 21 Bank). The Bank does not intend to pay dividends that would result in a recapture of any portion of its base year tax bad debt reserves. Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") imposes a tax on alternative minimum taxable income ("AMTI") at a rate of 20%. AMTI is adjusted by determining the tax treatment of certain items in a manner that negates the deferral or deduction of income resulting from the customary tax treatment of those items. Thus, the Banks AMTI is increased by 75% of the amount by which the Banks adjusted current earnings exceed its AMTI (determined without regard to this adjustment and prior to reduction for net operating losses). State and Local Taxation State of New York. The Company is subject to New York State ("NYS") franchise tax on one of several alternative bases, whichever results in the greatest tax, and files combined returns for this purpose. The basic tax is measured by "entire net income," which is federal taxable income with adjustments. For NYS tax purposes, as long as the Bank continues to satisfy certain definitional tests relating to its assets and the nature of its business, it will be permitted deductions, within specified formula limits, for additions to its tax bad debt reserves for purposes of computing its entire net income. The Banks deduction with respect to "qualifying loans," which are generally loans secured by certain interests in real property, may be computed using an amount based on the Banks actual loss experience (the "Experience Method") or 32% of the Banks entire net income, computed without regard to this deduction and reduced by the amount of any permitted addition to the Banks reserve for non qualifying loans. The Banks deduction with respect to non qualifying loans must be computed pursuant to the Experience Method. The Bank reviews the most appropriate method of calculating the deduction attributable to an addition to the tax bad debt reserves each year. The portion of the NYS tax bad debt reserve in excess of a reserve amount computed pursuant to the Experience Method is subject to recapture upon a non dividend distribution in a manner similar to the recapture of the federal tax bad debt reserves for such distributions. The tax bad debt reserve is additionally subject to recapture in the event that the Bank fails either to satisfy a thrift definitional test relating to the composition of its assets or to maintain a thrift charter. In general, the Holding Company is not required to pay NYS tax on dividends and interest received from the Bank. The NYS tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 was 9.03% of taxable income. This rate included a commuter transportation surcharge. City of New York. The Holding Company and the Bank are both subject to a NYC banking corporation tax of 9% on taxable income allocated to NYC. NYC generally conforms its tax law to NYS tax law in the determination of taxable income (including the laws relating to tax bad debt reserves). NYC tax law, however, does not allow a deduction for the carryover of a net operating loss of a banking company. State of Delaware. As a Delaware holding company not earning income in Delaware, the Holding Company is exempt from Delaware corporate income tax, however, is required to file an annual report and pay an annual franchise tax to the State of Delaware. Regulation General The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination, and supervision by the OTS, as its chartering agency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), as its deposit insurer. The Banks deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC under the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF") [formerly the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF") and the Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF"), which were merged into the DIF as of March 31, 2006]. The Bank must file reports with the OTS concerning its activities and financial condition, and must obtain regulatory approval prior to entering into certain transactions, such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other depository institutions. The OTS conducts periodic examinations to assess the Banks safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which a savings association may engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the DIF and depositors. As a publicly held unitary savings and loan holding company, the Holding Company is required to file certain reports with, and otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of, both the SEC, under the federal securities laws, and the OTS. F 22 The OTS and the FDIC have significant discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such policies, whether by the OTS, the FDIC or the United States Congress, could have a material adverse impact on the operations of the Company. The following discussion is intended to be a summary of the material statutes and regulations applicable to savings associations and savings and loan holding companies, and does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all such statutes and regulations. Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Business Activities. The Bank derives its lending and investment powers from the Home Owners Loan Act, as amended (HOLA), and the regulations of the OTS enacted thereunder. Pursuant thereto, the Bank may invest in mortgage loans secured by residential and commercial real estate, commercial and consumer loans, certain types of debt securities, and certain other assets. The Bank may also establish service corporations that may engage in activities not otherwise permissible for the Bank, including certain real estate equity investments and securities and insurance brokerage activities. The investment powers are subject to various limitations, including a: (i) prohibition against the acquisition of any corporate debt security not rated in one of the four highest rating categories; (ii) limit of 400% of capital on the aggregate amount of loans secured by non residential real property; (iii) limit of 20% of assets on commercial loans, with the amount of commercial loans in excess of 10% of assets being limited to small business loans; (iv) limit of 35% of assets on the aggregate amount of consumer loans and commercial paper and corporate debt securities; (v) limit of 5% of assets on non conforming loans (i.e., loans in excess of specified amounts); and (vi) limit of the greater of 5% of assets or capital on certain construction loans made for the purpose of financing property which is, or is expected to become, residential. Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks. On October 4, 2006, the OTS and other federal bank regulatory authorities published the Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks (the Nontraditional Mortgage Product Guidance). The Nontraditional Mortgage Product Guidance describes sound practices for managing risk, as well as marketing, originating and servicing nontraditional mortgage products, which include, among other things, interest only loans. The Nontraditional Mortgage Product Guidance sets forth supervisory expectations with respect to loan terms and underwriting standards, portfolio and risk management practices and consumer protection. For example, the Nontraditional Mortgage Product Guidance indicates that originating interest only loans with reduced documentation is considered a layering of risk and that institutions are expected to demonstrate mitigating factors to support their underwriting decision and the borrowers repayment capacity. Specifically, the Nontraditional Mortgage Product Guidance indicates that a lender may accept a borrowers statement as to the borrowers income without obtaining verification only if there are mitigating factors that clearly minimize the need for direct verification of repayment capacity and that, for many borrowers, institutions should be able to readily document income. Loans to One Borrower. Under HOLA, savings associations are generally subject to limits on loans to one borrower identical to those imposed on national banks. Generally, pursuant to these limits, a savings association may not advance a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of the associations unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Additional amounts may be advanced, not in excess of 10% of unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus, if such loans or extensions of credit are fully secured by readily marketable collateral. Such collateral is defined to include certain debt and equity securities and bullion, but generally does not include real estate. At December 31, 2006, the Banks limit on loans to one borrower was $73.3 million. The Banks largest aggregate amount of loans to one borrower on that date was $36.8 million and the second largest borrower had an aggregate loan balance of $35.5 million. QTL Test. HOLA requires savings associations to satisfy a QTL test. A savings association may satisfy the QTL test by maintaining at least 65% of its portfolio assets in certain qualified thrift investments during at least nine months of the most recent twelve month period. Portfolio assets means, in general, an associations total assets less the sum of: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets, (ii) certain intangibles, including goodwill, credit card relationships and purchased MSR, and (iii) the value of property used to conduct the associations business. Qualified thrift investments include various types of loans made for residential and housing purposes; investments related to such purposes, including certain mortgage backed and related securities; and small business, education, and credit card loans. A savings association may additionally satisfy the QTL test by qualifying as a "domestic building and loan association" as defined in the Code. At December 31, 2006, the Bank maintained 68.5% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments. The Bank also satisfied the QTL test in each of the prior 12 months and, therefore, was a QTL. A savings association that fails the QTL test must either operate under certain restrictions on its activities or convert to a bank charter. The initial restrictions include prohibitions against (i) engaging in any new activity not permissible for a national bank, (ii) paying dividends not permissible under national bank regulations, and (iii) establishing any new branch office in a location not permissible for a national bank in the associations home state. In addition, within one year of the date a savings association ceases to satisfy the F 23 QTL test, any company controlling the association must register under, and become subject to the requirements of, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. A savings association that has failed the QTL test may requalify under the QTL test and be relieved of the limitations; however, it may do so only once. If the savings association does not requalify under the QTL test within three years after failing the QTL test, it will be required to terminate any activity, and dispose of any investment, not permissible for a national bank. Capital Requirements. OTS regulations require savings associations to satisfy three minimum capital standards: (i) a tangible capital ratio of 1.5%; (ii) a risk based capital ratio of 8%; and (iii) a leverage capital ratio. For depository institutions that have been assigned the highest composite rating of 1 under the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System, the minimum required leverage capital ratio is 3%. For any other depository institution, the minimum required leverage capital ratio is 4%, unless a higher leverage capital ratio is warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profile of the depository institution. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act ("FDICIA") requires that the OTS and other federal banking agencies revise their risk based capital standards, with appropriate transition rules, to ensure that they take into account interest rate risk ("IRR"), concentration of risk and the risks of non traditional activities. Current OTS regulations do not include a specific IRR component of the risk based capital requirement; however, the OTS monitors the IRR of individual institutions through a variety of methods, including an analysis of the change in net portfolio value ("NPV"). NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities and, therefore, hypothetically represents the value of an institutions net worth. The OTS has also used the NPV analysis as part of its evaluation of certain applications or notices submitted by thrift institutions. In addition, OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a provides guidance on the management of IRR and the responsibility of boards of directors in that area. The OTS, through its general oversight of the safety and soundness of savings associations, retains the right to impose minimum capital requirements on individual institutions to the extent they are not in compliance with certain written OTS guidelines regarding NPV analysis. The OTS has not imposed any such requirements on the Bank. The table below presents the Banks regulatory capital as compared to the OTS regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2006: As of December 31, 2006 Actual Minimum Capital Requirement Amount Ratio Amount Ratio (Dollars in Thousands) Tangible $277,622 9.05% $46,037 1.5% Leverage Capital 277,622 9.05 122,766 4.0 Total Risk based capital 276,864 12.61 175,653 8.0 The following is a reconciliation of GAAP capital to regulatory capital for the Bank: At December 31, 2006 Tangible Capital Leverage Capital Total Risk Based Capital (Dollars in Thousands) GAAP capital $326,456 $326,456 $326,456 Non allowable assets: Core deposit intangible MSR (265) (265) (265) Accumulated other comprehensive loss 7,069 7,069 7,069 Goodwill (55,638) (55,638) (55,638) Tier 1 risk based capital 277,622 277,622 277,622 Contingent liability for loans sold to FNMA (16,272) General valuation allowance 15,514 Total capital 277,622 277,622 276,864 Minimum capital requirement 46,037 122,766 175,653 Regulatory capital excess $231,585 $154,856 $101,211 Limitation on Capital Distributions. OTS regulations impose limitations upon capital distributions by savings associations, such as cash dividends, payments to purchase or otherwise acquire its shares, payments to shareholders of another institution in a cash out merger, and other distributions charged against capital. F 24 As the subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company, the Bank is required to file a notice with the OTS at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution. However, if the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, the Bank must file an application for OTS approval of a proposed capital distribution. In addition, the OTS can prohibit a proposed capital distribution otherwise permissible under the regulation if it determines that the association is in need of greater than customary supervision or that a proposed distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Further, under OTS prompt corrective action regulations, the Bank would be prohibited from making a capital distribution if, after the distribution, the Bank failed to satisfy its minimum capital requirements, as described above (See Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action). In addition, pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ("FDIA"), an insured depository institution such as the Bank is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become "undercapitalized" as defined in the FDIA. Liquidity. Pursuant to OTS regulations, the Bank is required to maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure its safe and sound operation (See "Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further discussion). At December 31, 2006, the Banks liquid assets approximated 5.75% of total assets. Assessments. Savings associations are required by OTS regulation to pay semi annual assessments to the OTS to fund its operations. The regulations base the assessment for individual savings associations, other than those with total assets never exceeding $100.0 million, on three components: the size of the association (on which the basic assessment is based); the associations supervisory condition, which results in percentage increases for any savings institution with a composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 in its most recent safety and soundness examination; and the complexity of the associations operations, which results in percentage increases for a savings association that managed over $1 billion in trust assets, serviced loans for other institutions aggregating more than $1 billion, or had certain off balance sheet assets aggregating more than $1 billion. Savings and loan holding companies are also required to pay semi annual assessments to the OTS. For the year ended December 31, 2006, a total of $13,000 in assessments were paid for the Bank and Holding Company. Branching. Subject to certain limitations, HOLA and OTS regulations permit federally chartered savings associations to establish branches in any state of the United States. The authority to establish such a branch is available: (i) in states that expressly authorize branches of savings associations located in another state, and (ii) to an association that either satisfies the QTL test or qualifies as a domestic building and loan association under the Code, which imposes qualification requirements similar to those for a QTL under HOLA (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations QTL Test). HOLA and OTS regulations preempt any state law purporting to regulate branching by federal savings associations. Community Reinvestment. Under the Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA"), as implemented by OTS regulations, a savings association possesses a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with its safe and sound operation, to help satisfy the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institutions discretion to develop the types of products and services it believes are most appropriate to its particular community. The CRA requires the OTS, in connection with its examination of a savings association, to assess the associations record of satisfying the credit needs of its community and consider such record in its evaluation of certain applications by the association. The assessment is composed of three tests: (i) a lending test, to evaluate the institutions record of making loans in its service areas; (ii) an investment test, to evaluate the institutions record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and (iii) a service test, to evaluate the institutions delivery of services through its branches, automated teller machines and other offices. The CRA also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. The Bank received an "Outstanding" CRA rating in its most recent examination. Regulations additionally require that the Bank publicly disclose certain agreements that are in fulfillment of the CRA. The Bank has no such agreements. Transactions with Related Parties. The Banks authority to engage in transactions with its affiliates is limited by OTS regulations, Sections 23A, 23B, 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act (FRA), Regulation W issued by the Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"), as well as additional limitations adopted by the Director of the OTS. OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates conform to Regulation W. These provisions, among other matters, prohibit, limit or place restrictions upon a savings institution extending credit to, or entering into certain transactions with, its affiliates, which, for the Bank, would include the Holding Company, principal shareholders, directors and executive officers. OTS regulations include additional restrictions on savings associations under Section 11 of HOLA, including provisions prohibiting a savings association from: (i) advancing a loan to an affiliate engaged in non bank holding company activities; and (ii) purchasing or investing in securities issued by an affiliate that is not a subsidiary. The OTS regulations also F 25 include certain exemptions from these prohibitions. The FRB and the OTS require each depository institution that is subject to Sections 23A and 23B to implement policies and procedures to ensure compliance with Regulation W and the OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates. Section 402 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes Oxley") prohibits the extension of personal loans to directors and executive officers of issuers (as defined in Sarbanes Oxley). The prohibition, however, does not apply to any loan by an insured depository institution, such as the Bank, if the loan is subject to the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the FRA, as implemented by Regulation O (12 CFR 215). The Banks authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers, and shareholders owning 10% or more of the Holding Companys outstanding common stock, as well as to entities controlled by such persons, is additionally governed by the requirements of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the FRA and Regulation O of the FRB enacted thereunder. Among other matters, these provisions require that extensions of credit to insiders: (i) be made on terms substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons and that do not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features; and (ii) not exceed certain amount limitations individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of the associations capital. Regulation O additionally requires that extensions of credit in excess of certain limits be approved in advance by the associations board of directors. The Holding Company and Bank both presently prohibit loans to Directors and executive management. Enforcement. Under FDICIA, the OTS possesses primary enforcement responsibility over federally chartered savings associations and has the authority to bring enforcement action against all institution affiliated parties, including any controlling stockholder or any shareholder, attorney, appraiser or accountant who knowingly or recklessly participates in any violation of applicable law or regulation, breach of fiduciary duty or certain other wrongful actions that cause, or are likely to cause, more than minimal loss or other significant adverse effect on an insured savings association. Civil penalties cover a wide series of violations and actions and range from $5,000 for each day during which violations of law, regulations, orders, and certain written agreements and conditions continue, up to $1 million per day if the person obtained a substantial pecuniary gain as a result of such violation or knowingly or recklessly caused a substantial loss to the institution. Criminal penalties for certain financial institution crimes include fines of up to $1 million and imprisonment for up to 30 years. In addition, regulators possess substantial discretion to take enforcement action against an institution that fails to comply with regulatory structure, particularly with respect to capital requirements. Possible enforcement actions range from the imposition of a capital plan and capital directive to receivership, conservatorship, or the termination of deposit insurance. Under FDICIA, the FDIC has the authority to recommend to the Director of the OTS that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings association. If action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC possesses authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Standards for Safety and Soundness. Pursuant to FDICIA, as amended by the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, the OTS, together with the other federal bank regulatory agencies, has adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other features, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. In addition, the OTS has adopted regulations pursuant to FDICIA that authorize, but do not require, the OTS to order an institution that has been given notice by the OTS that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the OTS must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized association is subject under the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Savings Associations Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action"). If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the OTS may seek enforcement in judicial proceedings and the imposition of civil money penalties. Real Estate Lending Standards. The OTS and the other federal banking agencies have adopted regulations prescribing standards for extensions of credit that are (i) secured by real estate, or (ii) made for the purpose of financing the construction of improvements on real estate. The regulations require each savings association to establish and maintain written internal real estate lending standards that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices and appropriate to the size of the association and the nature and scope of its real estate lending activities. The standards must additionally conform to accompanying OTS guidelines, which include loan to value ratios for the different types of real estate loans. Associations are permitted to make a limited amount of loans that do not conform to the loan to value limitations provided such exceptions are reviewed and justified appropriately. The guidelines additionally contain a number of lending situations in which exceptions to the loan to value standards are permitted. F 26 In late 2006, the OTS adopted guidance entitled "Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices" (the "CRE Guidance"), to address concentrations of commercial real estate loans in savings associations. The CRE Guidance reinforces and enhances the OTS existing regulations and guidelines for real estate lending and loan portfolio management, but does not establish specific commercial real estate lending limits. Rather, the CRE Guidance seeks to promote sound risk management practices that will enable savings associations to continue to pursue commercial real estate lending in a safe and sound manner. The CRE Guidance applies to savings associations with an accumulation of credit concentration exposures and asks that the associations quantify the additional risk such exposures may pose. Such quantification should include the stratification of the commercial real estate portfolio by, among other qualities, property type, geographic market, tenant concentrations, tenant industries, developer concentrations and risk rating. In addition, an institution should perform periodic market analyses for the various property types and geographic markets represented in its portfolio. Further, an institution with commercial real estate concentration risk should also perform portfolio level stress tests or sensitivity analysis to quantify the impact of changing economic conditions on asset quality, earnings and capital. The Bank believes that the CRE Guidance will not have a material impact on the conduct of its business and that it will be able to effectively implement requirements and suggestions set forth in the CRE Guidance during 2007. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. Under the OTS prompt corrective action regulations, the OTS is required to take certain, and authorized to take other, supervisory actions against undercapitalized savings associations. For this purpose, a savings association is placed in one of five categories based on its capital: "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," and "critically undercapitalized." Generally, a capital restoration plan must be filed with the OTS within 45 days of the date an association receives notice that it is "undercapitalized." In addition, the institution becomes subject to various mandatory supervisory actions, including restrictions on growth of assets and other forms of expansion. Generally, under the OTS regulations, a federally chartered savings association is treated as well capitalized if its total risk based capital ratio is 10% or greater, its Tier 1 risk based capital ratio is 6% or greater, its leverage ratio is 5% or greater, and it is not subject to any order or directive by the OTS to meet a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank satisfied all criteria necessary to be categorized "well capitalized" under the prompt corrective action regulatory framework. When appropriate, the OTS can require corrective action by a savings association holding company under the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Savings associations are required to pay a deposit insurance premium. The amount of the premium is determined based upon a risk based assessment system, which was amended effective January 1, 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Bank was not required to pay any assessments on its deposits under the previously existing FDIC policies. Under the amended system, the FDIC assigns an institution to one of four risk categories entitled Risk Category I, II, III and IV, with Risk Category I considered most favorable and Risk Category IV considered least favorable. Risk Category I contains all well capitalized institutions with capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, and liquidity component ratings ("CAMEL Component Ratings") of either 1 or 2. Risk Category II contains all institutions that are adequately capitalized and possess CAMEL Component Ratings of either 1, 2 or 3. Risk Category III contains either undercapitalized institutions that have CAMEL Composite Ratings of 1, 2 or 3 or adequately capitalized institutions that have CAMEL Composite Ratings of 4 or 5. Risk Category IV contains all institutions that are undercapitalized and have a CAMEL Composite Ratings of 4 or 5. The Bank currently falls within Risk Category I. Base assessment rates for institutions within Risk Category I range from 2 to 4 basis points, depending upon a combination of the institutions CAMEL Component Ratings and financial ratios. The base assessment rates are fixed at 7 basis points, 25 basis points and 40 basis points for institutions within the Risk Categories II, III and IV, respectively. The FDIC has the flexibility to adjust rates, without further notice and comment rulemaking, provided that no such adjustment can be greater than 3 basis points from one quarter to the next, adjustments cannot result in rates more than 3 basis points above or below the base rates and rates cannot be negative. Effective January 1, 2007, the FDIC set the assessment rates at 3 basis points above the base rates. Assessment rates will, therefore, range from 5 to 43 basis points of deposits. Under the amended system, the assessment rate for the Banks deposits is 5 basis points. The FDIC also established 1.25% of estimated insured deposits as the designated reserve ratio of the DIF. The FDIC is authorized to change the assessment rates as necessary, subject to the previously discussed limitations, to maintain the required reserve ratio of 1.25%. The DIF currently satisfies the reserve ratio requirement. If the FDIC determines that assessment rates should be increased, institutions in all risk categories could be affected. The FDIC has exercised this authority several times in the past and could raise insurance assessment rates in the future. In November 2006, the FDIC notified the Bank that it has been granted a credit of $1.6 million that will apply against its insurance premiums commencing in 2007. This credit resulted from final implementation of a provision of the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 that compensated financial institutions such as the Bank that were required to pay insurance premiums prior to 1996 while other financial institutions that had units that operated under industrial loan company and thrift charters were not. The Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 amended the FDIA to recapitalize the SAIF (which was merged with the BIF into the newly formed DIF on March 31, 2006) and expand the assessment base for the payments of Financing Corporation ("FICO") bonds. FICO bonds were sold by the federal government in order to finance the recapitalization of the SAIF and BIF insurance funds that was necessitated following payments from the funds to compensate depositors of federally insured depository institutions that experienced bankruptcy F 27 and dissolution during the 1980s and 1990s. For the fourth quarter of 2006, the quarterly adjusted rate of assessment for FICO bonds is 0.0124%. The Banks total expense in 2006 for the FICO bonds assessment was $257,000. Privacy and Security Protection. The OTS has adopted regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of The Gramm Leach Bliley Act of 1999 ("Gramm Leach"). The regulations require financial institutions to adopt procedures to protect customers and their "non public personal information." The regulations require the Bank to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares "non public personal information," to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. In addition, the Bank is required to provide its customers the ability to "opt out" of the sharing of their personal information with unaffiliated third parties, if the sharing of such information does not satisfy any of the permitted exceptions. The Banks existing privacy protection policy complies with the regulations. The Bank is additionally subject to regulatory guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information to implement certain provisions of Gramm Leach. The guidelines describe the federal banking agencies expectations for the creation, implementation and maintenance of an information security program, including administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in the guidelines are intended to insure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, and protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records and unauthorized access to or use of such records or information that could result in substantial customer harm or inconvenience. Gramm Leach additionally permits each state to enact legislation that is more protective of consumers personal information. Currently, there are a number of privacy bills pending in the New York legislature. Management of the Company cannot predict the impact, if any, of these bills if enacted. Internet Banking. Technological developments are dramatically altering the methods by which most companies, including financial institutions, conduct their business. The growth of the Internet is prompting banks to reconsider business strategies and adopt alternative distribution and marketing systems. The federal banking regulatory agencies have conducted seminars and published materials targeted at various aspects of Internet banking and have indicated their intention to re evaluate their regulations to ensure they encourage bank efficiency and competitiveness consistent with safe and sound banking practices. The Company cannot assure that federal bank regulatory agencies will not adopt new regulations that will materially affect or restrict the Banks Internet operations. Insurance Activities. As a federal savings association, the Bank is generally permitted to engage in certain insurance activities through subsidiaries. OTS regulations prohibit depository institutions from conditioning the extension of credit to individuals upon either the purchase of an insurance product or annuity or an agreement by the consumer not to purchase an insurance product or annuity from an entity not affiliated with the depository institution. The regulations additionally require prior disclosure of this prohibition if such products are offered to credit applicants. Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") System. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which is one of the twelve regional FHLBs composing the FHLB System. Each FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for its member institutions. Any advances from the FHLBNY must be secured by specified types of collateral, and long term advances may be obtained only for the purpose of providing funds for residential housing finance. The Bank, as a member of the FHLBNY, is currently required to acquire and hold shares of FHLBNY Class B stock. The Class B stock has a par value of $100 per share and is redeemable upon five years notice, subject to certain conditions. The Class B stock has two subclasses, one for membership stock purchase requirements and the other for activity based stock purchase requirements. The minimum stock investment requirement in the FHLBNY Class B stock is the sum of the membership stock purchase requirement, determined on an annual basis at the end of each calendar year, and the activity based stock purchase requirement, determined on a daily basis. For the Bank, the membership stock purchase requirement is 0.2% of "mortgage related assets," as defined by the FHLBNY, which consist primarily of residential mortgage loans and MBS held by the Bank. The activity based stock purchase requirement for the Bank is equal to the sum of: (i) 4.5% of outstanding borrowings from the FHLBNY; (ii) 4.5% of the outstanding principal balance of the "acquired member assets," as defined by the FHLBNY, and delivery commitments for acquired member assets; (iii) a specified dollar amount related to certain off balance sheet items, which for the Bank is zero; and (iv) a specific percentage range from 0% to 5% of the carrying value on the FHLBNYs balance sheet of derivative contracts between the FHLBNY and its members, which is also zero for the Bank. The Bank was in compliance with these requirements with an investment in FHLBNY stock of $31.3 million at December 31, 2006. The FHLBNY can adjust the specific percentages and dollar amount periodically within the ranges established by the FHLBNY capital plan. Federal Reserve System. The Bank is subject to provisions of the FRA and FRB regulations pursuant to which savings associations are required to maintain non interest earning cash reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). FRB regulations generally require that reserves be maintained in the amount of 3% of the aggregate of transaction accounts in excess of $8.5 million through $45.8 million (subject to adjustment by the FRB) plus a reserve of 10% (subject to adjustment by the FRB F 28 between 8% and 14% against the portion of total transaction accounts in excess of $45.8 million). The initial $8.5 million of otherwise reservable balances are currently exempt from the reserve requirements, however, the exemption is adjusted by the FRB at the end of each year. The Bank is in compliance with the foregoing reserve requirements. Because required reserves must be maintained in the form of either vault cash, a non interest bearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank, or a pass through account as defined by the FRB, the effect of this reserve requirement is to reduce the Banks interest earning assets. The balances maintained to satisfy the FRB reserve requirements may be used to satisfy liquidity requirements imposed by the OTS. Depository institutions are additionally authorized to borrow from the Federal Reserve discount window, however, FRB regulations require such institutions to hold reserves in the form of vault cash or deposits with Federal Reserve Banks in order to borrow. Anti Money Laundering and Customer Identification. The Company is subject to OTS regulations implementing the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 ("PATRIOT Act"). The PATRIOT Act provides the federal government with powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing and broadened anti money laundering requirements. By way of amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the PATRIOT Act enacted measures intended to encourage information sharing among bank regulatory and law enforcement agencies. In addition, certain provisions of Title III and the related OTS regulations impose affirmative obligations on a broad range of financial institutions, including banks and thrifts. Title III imposes the following requirements, among others, with respect to financial institutions: (i) establishment of anti money laundering programs; (ii) establishment of procedures for obtaining identifying information from customers opening new accounts, including verifying their identity within a reasonable period of time; (iii) establishment of enhanced due diligence policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report money laundering; and (iv) prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks and compliance with recordkeeping obligations with respect to correspondent accounts of foreign banks. In addition, bank regulators are directed to consider a holding companys effectiveness in preventing money laundering when ruling on FRA and Bank Merger Act applications. Regulation of Holding Company The Holding Company is a non diversified unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of HOLA. As such, it is required to register with the OTS and is subject to OTS regulations, examinations, supervision and reporting requirements. In addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over the Holding Companys non savings association subsidiaries. Among other effects, this authority permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of a subsidiary savings association. HOLA prohibits a savings association holding company, directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries, from acquiring another savings association or holding company thereof, without prior written approval of the OTS; acquiring or retaining, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non subsidiary savings association, non subsidiary holding company, or non subsidiary company engaged in activities other than those permitted by HOLA; or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the FDIC. In evaluating an application by a holding company to acquire a savings association, the OTS must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and savings association involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community, and competitive factors. As a unitary savings and loan holding company, the Holding Company generally is not restricted under existing laws as to the types of business activities in which it may engage, provided that the Bank continues to satisfy the QTL test (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations QTL Test for a discussion of the QTL requirements). Upon any non supervisory acquisition by the Holding Company of another savings association or a savings bank that satisfies the QTL test and is deemed to be a savings association by the OTS and that will be held as a separate subsidiary, the Holding Company will become a multiple savings association holding company and will be subject to limitations on the types of business activities in which it may engage. HOLA limits the activities of a multiple savings association holding company and its non insured association subsidiaries primarily to activities permissible for bank holding companies under Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, subject to prior approval of the OTS, and to other activities authorized by OTS regulation. The OTS is prohibited from approving any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings association holding company controlling savings associations in more than one state, subject to two exceptions: an acquisition of a savings association in another state (i) in a supervisory transaction, or (ii) pursuant to authority under the laws of the state of the association to be acquired that specifically permit such acquisitions. The conditions imposed upon interstate acquisitions by those states that have enacted authorizing legislation vary. F 29 Gramm Leach additionally restricts the powers of new unitary savings and loan association holding companies. A unitary savings and loan holding company that is "grandfathered," i.e., became a unitary savings and loan holding company pursuant to an application filed with the OTS prior to May 4, 1999, such as the Holding Company, retains the authority it possessed under the law in existence as of May 4, 1999. All other savings and loan holding companies are limited to financially related activities permissible for bank holding companies, as defined under Gramm Leach. Gramm Leach also prohibits non financial companies from acquiring grandfathered savings and loan association holding companies. The Bank must file a notice with the OTS prior to the payment of any dividends or other capital distributions to the Holding Company (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Limitation on Capital Distributions). Federal Securities Laws The Holding Companys common stock is registered with the SEC under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act. It is subject to the periodic reporting, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements under the Exchange Act. Item 1A. Risk Factors The Banks focus on multifamily and commercial real estate lending may subject it to greater risk of an adverse impact on operations from a decline in the economy. The majority of loans in the Banks portfolio are secured by multifamily residential property. Multifamily loans are generally viewed as exposing lenders to a greater risk of loss than one to four family residential loans and typically involve higher loan principal amounts. Although multifamily loans are generally non recourse, are underwritten based upon the cash flow generated by the collateral property and have loan to value ratios of less than 80%, in a decline in the economy, a borrower experiencing financial difficulties in connection with one income producing property may default on all of its outstanding loans, even if the properties securing the other loans are generating positive cash flow. In addition, large loans tend to expose the Bank to a greater degree of risk due to the potential impact of losses from any one loan or concentration of loans to one borrower relative to the size of the Banks capital position. As part of the Companys strategic plan, it has increased its emphasis on commercial real estate loans over the past five years. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally larger and involve a greater degree of risk than one to four family and multifamily residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon successful operation or management of the collateral properties, repayment of such loans are generally subject to a greater extent to prevailing conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Further, the collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business. Multifamily and commercial real estate loans additionally involve a greater risk than one to four family residential mortgage loans because economic and real estate conditions, and government regulations such as rent control and rent stabilization laws, which are outside the control of the borrower or the Bank, could impair the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of such properties. As a result, rental income might not rise sufficiently over time to satisfy increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in overhead expenses (i.e., utilities, taxes, etc.). Impaired loans are thus difficult to identify before they become problematic. In addition, if the cash flow from a collateral property is reduced (e.g., if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrowers ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. Dependence on economic and real estate conditions and geographic concentration in market area. The Bank gathers deposits primarily from the communities and neighborhoods in close proximity to its branches. The Banks primary lending area is the NYC metropolitan area, although its overall lending area is much larger, and extends approximately 150 miles in each direction from its corporate headquarters in Brooklyn. The majority of the Banks mortgage loans are secured by properties located in its primary lending area, most of which are secured by real estate located in the NYC boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Banks results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. A deterioration in economic conditions in the NYC metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact upon the quality of the Banks loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and, accordingly, on the Companys results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for the Banks mortgage loans are located strongly influence the level of the Banks non performing loans and the value of its collateral. Real estate values are affected by, among other items, fluctuations in general or local economic conditions, supply and demand, changes in governmental rules or F 30 policies, the availability of loans to potential purchasers and acts of nature. Declines in real estate markets have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact the Companys results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. The Banks allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The amount of inherent loan losses which could be ultimately realized is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that could be beyond the Banks control. Such losses could exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the Banks allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to satisfy actual loan losses should such losses be realized. Increases in interest rates may reduce the Companys profitability. The Banks primary source of income is its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest earning assets and the interest expense incurred on its interest bearing liabilities. The one year interest rate sensitivity gap is the difference between interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year and interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year, expressed as a percentage of total assets. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in its cost of liabilities relative to its yield on assets, and thus decrease its net interest income. In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and MBS are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage redemption rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates will vary due to several factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, and other demographic variables. However, the most significant factors affecting prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. Based upon historical experience, if interest rates were to rise, the Bank would expect the demand for multifamily loans to decline. Decreased loan origination volume would likely negatively impact the Banks interest income. In addition, if interest rates were to rise rapidly and result in an economic decline, the Bank would expect its level of non performing loans to increase. Such an increase in non performing loans may result in an increase to the allowance for loan losses and possible increased charge offs, which would negatively impact the Companys net income. As a federally chartered savings bank, the Bank is required to monitor changes in its NPV. In addition, the Bank monitors its NPV ratio, which is the NPV divided by the estimated market value of total assets. The NPV ratio can be viewed as a corollary to the Banks capital ratios. To monitor its overall sensitivity to changes in interest rates, the Bank simulates the effect of instantaneous changes in interest rates of up to 200 basis points on its assets and liabilities. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and the Bank cannot predict future FOMC actions or other factors that will cause interest rates to change. Risks related to changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, as the Banks chartering agency, and the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. Such regulation limits the manner in which the Holding Company and the Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Banks depositors, and not to benefit the Bank or its creditors. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. For further information regarding the laws and regulations that affect the Holding Company and the Bank, see "Item 1. Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations," and "Item 1. Business Regulation Regulation of Holding Company." Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within the control of the Holding Company or the Bank. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws may cause the Companys results of operations to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the OTS, significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions would have a material impact on the Bank, and therefore, on the Companys results of operations. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect profitability. The Banks retail banking and a significant portion of its lending business are concentrated in the NYC metropolitan area. The NYC banking environment is extremely competitive. The Banks competition for loans exists principally from savings banks, commercial banks, mortgage banks and insurance companies. The Bank has faced sustained competition for the F 31 origination of multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. Management anticipates that the current level of competition for multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans will continue for the foreseeable future, and this competition may inhibit the Banks ability to maintain its current level and pricing of such loans. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. In addition, it must also compete for deposit monies against the stock markets and mutual funds, especially during periods of strong performance in the equity markets. Over the previous decade, consolidation in the financial services industry, coupled with the emergence of Internet banking, has altered the deposit gathering landscape and may increase competitive pressures on the Bank. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties The headquarters of both the Holding Company and the Bank are located at 209 Havemeyer Street, Brooklyn, New York 11211. The headquarters building is fully owned by the Bank. The Bank conducts its business through twenty one full service retail banking offices located throughout Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Nassau County, New York. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Company is routinely named as a defendant in or party to various pending or threatened legal actions or proceedings. Certain of these matters may seek substantial monetary damages. In the opinion of management, the Company is involved in no actions or proceedings that will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Holding Companys common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market and quoted under the symbol "DCOM." Prior to June 15, 1998, the Holding Companys common stock was quoted under the symbol "DIME." The following table indicates the high and low sales price for the Holding Companys common stock and dividends declared during the periods indicated. The Holding Companys common stock began trading on June 26, 1996, the date of the initial public offering. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2006 Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2005 Quarter Ended Dividends Declared High Sales Price Low Sales Price Dividends Declared High Sales Price Low Sales Price March 31st $0.14 $15.55 $13.46 $0.14 $17.41 $15.05 June 30th 0.14 14.58 13.49 0.14 15.62 13.96 September 30th 0.14 14.89 13.39 0.14 16.52 14.13 December 31st 0.14 14.80 13.66 0.14 15.24 13.78 On December 29, 2006, the final trading date in the fiscal year, the Holding Companys common stock closed at $14.01. Management estimates that the Holding Company had approximately 4,300 shareholders of record as of March 11, 2007, including persons or entities holding stock in nominee or street name through various brokers and banks. There were 36,456,354 shares of Holding Company common stock outstanding at December 31, 2006. On August 21, 2001, the Holding Company paid a 50% common stock dividend to all shareholders of record as of July 31, 2001. On April 24, 2002, the Holding Company paid a 50% common stock dividend to all shareholders of record as of April 1, 2002. On March 16, 2004, the Holding Company paid a 50% common stock dividend to all shareholders of record F 32 as of March 1, 2004. Each of these dividends had the effect of a three for two stock split. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company paid cash dividends totaling $19.7 million, representing $0.56 per outstanding common share. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Holding Company paid cash dividends totaling $19.9 million, representing $0.56 per outstanding common share. On January 18, 2007, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share to all shareholders of record as of January 31, 2007. This dividend was paid on February 15, 2007. The Holding Company is subject to the requirements of Delaware law, which generally limits dividends to an amount equal to the excess of net assets (i.e., the amount by which total assets exceed total liabilities) over statutory capital, or if no such excess exists, to net profits for the current and or immediately preceding fiscal year. As the principal asset of the Holding Company, the Bank could be called upon to provide funds for the Holding Companys payment of dividends (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Limitation on Capital Distributions"). (See also Notes to the Companys Audited Financial Statements for a discussion of limitations on distributions from the Bank to the Holding Company). In April 2000, the Holding Company issued $25.0 million in subordinated notes payable, with a stated annual coupon rate of 9.25%. Pursuant to the provisions of the notes, the Holding Company is required to first satisfy the interest obligation on the notes, which approximates $2.4 million annually, prior to the authorization and payment of common stock cash dividends. Management of the Holding Company does not believe that this requirement will materially affect its ability to pay dividends to its common shareholders. In March 2004, the Holding Company issued $72.2 million in trust preferred debt, with a stated annual coupon rate of 7.0%. Pursuant to the provisions of the debt, the Holding Company is required to first satisfy the interest obligation on the debt, which approximates $5.1 million annually, prior to the authorization and payment of common stock cash dividends. Management of the Holding Company does not believe that this requirement will materially affect its ability to pay dividends to its common shareholders. During the three months ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company purchased 209,332 shares of its common stock into treasury. These repurchases were made under the Companys Eleventh Stock Repurchase Program, which was publicly announced on December 15, 2005. A summary of the shares repurchased by month is as follows: Period Total Number Shares Purchased AveragePrice Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of a Publicly Announced Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Programs October 2006 57,500 $14.40 57,500 1,838,442 November 2006 76,332 14.12 76,332 1,762,110 December 2006 75,500 14.19 75,500 1,686,610 Performance Graph Pursuant to the regulations of the SEC, the graph below compares the Companys stock performance with that of the total return for the U.S. Nasdaq Stock Market and an index of all thrift stocks as reported by SNL Securities L.C. from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2006. The graph assumes the reinvestment of dividends in additional shares of the same class of equity securities as those listed below. F 33 Period Ending Index 12/31/01 12/31/02 12/31/03 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. 100.00 104.46 172.26 155.30 131.35 130.95 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 68.76 103.67 113.16 115.57 127.58 SNL Thrift Index 100.00 119.29 168.88 188.16 194.80 227.07 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Financial Highlights (Dollars in Thousands, except per share data) The consolidated financial and other data of the Company as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, set forth below is derived in part from, and should be read in conjunction with, the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The consolidated financial and other data for the year ended December 31, 2002 is unaudited. Amounts as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 have been reclassified to conform to the December 31, 2006 presentation. At or for the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Selected Financial Condition Data: Total assets $3,173,377 $3,126,226 $3,377,266 $2,971,661 $2,946,374 Loans and loans held for sale (net of deferred costs or fees and the allowance for loans losses) 2,688,159 2,596,310 2,486,262 2,177,622 2,154,619 MBS 154,437 193,453 519,885 462,737 362,952 Investment securities (including FHLBNY capital stock) 61,078 74,750 80,750 64,517 140,279 Federal funds sold and other short term investments 78,752 60,014 103,291 95,286 114,291 Goodwill 55,638 55,638 55,638 55,638 55,638 Deposits 2,008,532 1,914,772 2,210,049 2,041,678 1,927,175 Borrowings 788,900 834,120 809,249 571,675 675,541 Stockholders equity 290,631 291,713 281,721 283,919 265,737 Tangible Stockholders equity 241,829 239,169 229,013 228,026 206,325 Selected Operating Data: Interest income $170,810 $169,712 $173,758 $184,849 $189,621 Interest expense on deposits and borrowings 93,340 77,341 67,776 71,063 91,790 Net interest income 77,470 92,371 105,982 113,786 97,831 Provision for losses 240 340 280 288 240 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 77,230 92,031 105,702 113,498 97,591 Non interest income 12,390 5,151 10,376 9,388 12,292 Non interest expense 41,976 40,742 42,407 40,809 38,696 Income before income tax 47,644 56,440 73,671 82,077 71,187 Income tax expense 17,052 20,230 27,449 30,801 26,565 Net income $30,592 $36,210 $46,222 $51,276 $44,622 F 34 At or for the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 SELECTED FINANCIAL RATIOS AND OTHER DATA (1): Return on average assets 0.98% 1.11% 1.38% 1.67% 1.57% Return on average stockholders equity 10.43 12.65 16.76 18.76 17.65 Stockholders equity to total assets at end of period 9.16 9.33 8.34 9.55 9.02 Tangible equity to tangible assets at end of period 7.74 7.78 6.88 7.82 7.15 Loans to deposits at end of period 134.61 136.42 113.20 107.39 112.60 Loans to interest earning assets at end of period 90.18 88.82 78.04 77.89 77.85 Net interest spread (2) 2.19 2.66 3.09 3.62 3.22 Net interest margin (3) 2.60 2.96 3.32 3.90 3.61 Average interest earning assets to average interest bearing liabilities 113.07 111.88 110.79 111.60 111.64 Non interest expense to average assets 1.34 1.24 1.27 1.33 1.36 Core non interest expense to average assets (4) 1.34 1.24 1.24 1.30 1.28 Efficiency ratio (4) 48.36 40.03 36.67 33.05 36.49 Core efficiency ratio (4) (5) 48.36 39.98 35.96 32.38 34.44 Effective tax rate 35.79 35.84 37.26 37.53 37.32 Dividend payout ratio 64.37 54.90 42.97 30.10 25.00 Per Share Data: Diluted earnings per share $0.87 $1.02 $1.28 $1.37 $1.17 Cash dividends paid per share 0.56 0.56 0.55 0.41 0.29 Book value per share 7.97 7.89 7.58 7.45 6.91 Tangible book value per share 6.63 6.47 6.16 5.98 5.36 Asset Quality Ratios and Other Data: Net charge offs $27 $45 $133 $29 $274 Total non performing loans 3,606 958 1,459 525 2,116 OREO, net 134 Non performing loans to total loans 0.13% 0.04% 0.06% 0.02% 0.10% Non performing loans and OREO to total assets 0.11 0.03 0.04 0.02 0.08 Allowance for Loan Losses to: Non performing loans 430.23% 1,647.70% 1,065.32% 2,860.57% 730.53% Total loans (6) 0.57 0.60 0.62 0.68 0.71 Regulatory Capital Ratios: (Bank only) Tangible capital 9.05% 9.84% 7.88% 7.97% 7.19% Leverage capital 9.05 9.84 7.88 7.97 7.19 Total risk based capital 12.61 14.30 12.83 15.03 13.17 Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios (7): Including interest on deposits 1.51x 1.73x 2.09x 2.15x 1.78x Excluding interest on deposits 2.30 2.56 3.46 3.50 2.49 Full Service Branches 21 20 20 20 20 (1) With the exception of end of period ratios, all ratios are based on average daily balances during the indicated periods. Asset Quality Ratios and Regulatory Capital Ratios are end of period ratios. (2) The net interest spread represents the difference between the weighted average yield on interest earning assets and the weighted average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets. (4) In calculating these ratios, amortization expense related to the core deposit intangible is excluded from non interest expense. (5) The efficiency ratio represents non interest expense as a percentage of the sum of net interest income and non interest income, excluding any gains or losses on sales of assets. (6) Total loans represents loans, net, plus the allowance for loan losses. (7) For purposes of computing the ratios of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represent income before taxes, extraordinary items and the cumulative effect of accounting changes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges represent total interest expense, including and excluding interest on deposits. F 35 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Summary The Holding Companys primary business is the operation of the Bank. The Companys consolidated results of operations are dependent primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank additionally generates non interest income such as service charges and other fees, as well as income associated with Bank Owned Life Insurance. Non interest expense primarily consists of employee compensation and benefits, federal deposit insurance premiums, data processing costs, occupancy and equipment expenses, marketing expenses and other operating expenses. The Companys consolidated results of operations are also significantly affected by general economic and competitive conditions (particularly fluctuations in market interest rates), government policies, changes in accounting standards and actions of regulatory agencies. The Banks primary strategy is generally to increase its household and deposit market shares in the communities which it serves. During the last nine operating quarters, however, growth has been restricted as a result of the interest rate environment, which management has deemed unfavorable for significant balance sheet growth. The Bank also generally seeks to increase its product and service utilization for each individual depositor. In addition, the Banks primary strategy includes the origination of, and investment in, mortgage loans, with an emphasis on multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. The Company believes that multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans provide advantages as investment assets. Initially, they offer a higher yield than investment securities of comparable maturities or terms to repricing. In addition, origination and processing costs for the Banks multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans are lower per thousand dollars of originations than comparable one to four family loan costs. Further, the Banks market area has generally provided a stable flow of new and refinanced multifamily residential and commercial real estate loan originations. In order to address the credit risk associated with multifamily residential and commercial real estate lending, the Bank has developed underwriting standards that it believes are reliable in order to maintain consistent credit quality for its loans. The Bank also strives to provide a stable source of liquidity and earnings through the purchase of investment grade securities; seeks to maintain the asset quality of its loans and other investments; and uses appropriate portfolio and asset/liability management techniques in an effort to manage the effects of interest rate volatility on its profitability and capital. The net interest spread and net interest margin declined during the year ended December 31, 2006. These declines were attributable to the continued low interest rate environment on loans coupled with increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2006. These conditions resulted in a greater increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the yield on interest earning assets during the year. Critical Accounting Policies Various elements of the Companys accounting policies are inherently subject to estimation techniques, valuation assumptions and other subjective assessments. The Companys policies with respect to the methodologies it uses to determine the allowance for loan losses, the valuation of MSR, asset impairments (including the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, realization of deferred tax assets and other than temporary declines in the valuation of securities), and loan income recognition are its most critical accounting policies because they are important to the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, involve a significant degree of complexity and require management to make difficult and subjective judgments which often necessitate assumptions or estimates about highly uncertain matters. The use of different judgments, assumptions and estimates could result in material variations in the Companys results of operations or financial condition. The following are descriptions of the Companys critical accounting policies and explanations of the methods and assumptions underlying their application. These policies and their application are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committees of the Holding Company and Bank. Allowance for Loan Losses. GAAP requires the Bank to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses. Management uses available information to estimate losses on loans and believes that the Bank maintains its allowance for loan losses at appropriate levels. Adjustments may be necessary, however, if future economic, market or other conditions differ from the current operating environment. Although the Bank believes it utilizes the most reliable information available, the level of the allowance for loan losses remains an estimate subject to significant judgment. These evaluations are inherently subjective because, although based upon objective data, it is managements interpretation of the data that determines the amount of the appropriate allowance. The Company, therefore, periodically reviews the actual performance and charge offs of its portfolio and compares them to the previously determined allowance coverage F 36 percentages. In so doing, the Company evaluates the impact that the variables discussed below may have on the portfolio to determine whether or not changes should be made to the assumptions and analyses. The Banks loan loss reserve methodology consists of several key components, including a review of the two elements of its loan portfolio: problem loans (i.e., classified loans, non performing loans, troubled debt restructuring and impaired loans under Amended SFAS 114) and performing loans. Performing Loans At December 31, 2006, the majority of the allowance for loan losses was allocated to performing loans, which represented the overwhelming majority of the Banks loan portfolio. Performing loans are reviewed at least quarterly based upon the premise that there are losses inherent within the loan portfolio that have not been identified as of the review date. The Bank thus calculates an allowance for loan losses related to its performing loans by deriving an expected loan loss percentage and applying it to its performing loans. In deriving the expected loan loss percentage, the Bank generally considers, among others, the following criteria: the Banks historical loss experience; the age and payment history of the loans (commonly referred to as their "seasoned quality"); the type of loan (i.e., one to four family, multifamily residential, commercial real estate, cooperative apartment, construction or consumer); the underwriting history of the loan (i.e., whether it was underwritten by the Bank or a predecessor institution acquired by the Bank and, therefore, originally subjected to different underwriting criteria); both the current condition and recent history of the overall local real estate market (in order to determine the accuracy of utilizing recent historical charge off data to derive the expected loan loss percentages); the level of, and trend in, non performing loans; the level and composition of new loan activity; and the existence of geographic loan concentrations (as the overwhelming majority of the Banks loans are secured by real estate located in the NYC metropolitan area) or specific industry conditions within the portfolio segments. Since these criteria affect the expected loan loss percentages that are applied to performing loans, changes in any of them may affect the amount of the allowance and the provision for loan losses. The Bank applied the process of determining the allowance for loan losses consistently throughout the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Problem Loans OTS regulations and Bank policy require that loans possessing certain weaknesses be classified as Substandard, Doubtful or Loss assets. Assets that do not expose the Bank to risk sufficient to justify classification in one of these categories, however, which possess potential weaknesses that deserve managements attention, are designated Special Mention. Loans classified as Special Mention, Substandard or Doubtful are reviewed individually on a quarterly basis by the Banks Loan Loss Reserve Committee to determine the level of possible loss, if any, that should be provided for within the Banks allowance for loan losses. The Banks policy is to charge off immediately all balances classified as Loss and record a reduction of the allowance for loan losses for the full amount of the outstanding loan balance. The Bank applied this process consistently throughout the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Under the guidance established by Amended SFAS 114, loans determined to be impaired (generally, non performing one to four family loans in excess of $417,000 and non performing and troubled debt restructured multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans) are evaluated at least quarterly in order to establish whether the estimated value of the underlying collateral determined based upon an independent appraisal is sufficient to satisfy the existing debt. For each loan that the Bank determines to be impaired, impairment is measured by the amount that the carrying balance of the loan, including all accrued interest, exceeds the estimated fair value of the collateral. A specific reserve is established on all impaired loans to the extent of impairment and comprises a portion of the allowance for loan losses. The Loan Loss Reserve Committees determination of the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral is subject to assumptions and judgments made by the committee. A specific valuation allowance could differ materially as a result of changes in these assumptions and judgments. Valuation of MSR. The estimated origination and servicing costs of mortgage loans sold with servicing rights retained by the Bank are allocated between the loans and the servicing rights based on their estimated fair values at the time of the loan sale. MSR are carried at the lower of cost or fair value and are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, net servicing income. The estimated fair value of MSR is determined by calculating the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows, using prepayment, default, servicing cost and discount rate assumptions that the Company believes market participants would use for similar assets. All estimates and assumptions utilized in the valuation of MSR are derived based upon actual historical results for either the Bank or its industry peers. The fair value of MSR is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Fluctuations in prepayment speed assumptions have the most significant impact on the estimated fair value of MSR. In the event that loan prepayment activities exceed the assumed amount due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of MSR would likely decline. In the event that loan prepayment F 37 activities fall below the assumed amount due to a decline in loan refinancing, the fair value of MSR would likely increase. Any measurement of the value of MSR is limited by the existing conditions and assumptions utilized at a particular point in time, and would not necessarily be appropriate if applied at a different point in time. In measuring the fair value of capitalized MSR, assumptions utilized additionally include the stratification based on predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans for the purpose of evaluating impairment. Increases in the risk characteristics of the underlying loans from the assumed amounts would result in a decline in the fair value of the MSR. A valuation allowance is established in the event the recorded value of an individual stratum exceeds its fair value, for the full amount of the shortfall in the fair value. Asset Impairment Adjustments. Certain assets are carried in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value or at the lower of cost or fair value. Management periodically performs analyses to test for impairment of these assets. Two significant impairment analyses relate to the value of goodwill and other than temporary declines in the value of the Companys securities. In the event that an impairment of goodwill or an other than temporary decline in securities is determined to exist, it is recognized as a charge to earnings. Goodwill is accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), which was adopted on July 1, 2001. SFAS 142 eliminated amortization of goodwill and instead requires performance of an annual impairment test at the reporting unit level. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had goodwill totaling $55.6 million. The Company identified a single reporting unit for purposes of its goodwill impairment testing. The impairment test is therefore performed on a consolidated basis and compares the Holding Companys market capitalization (reporting unit fair value) to its outstanding equity (reporting unit carrying value). The Holding Company utilizes its closing stock price as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on the date of the impairment test in order to compute market capitalization. The Company has designated the last day of its fiscal year as the annual date for impairment testing. The Company performed its annual impairment test as of December 31, 2006 and concluded that no potential impairment of goodwill existed since the fair value of the Companys reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. No events occurred, nor circumstances changed, subsequent to December 31, 2006 that would reduce the fair value of the Companys reporting unit below its carrying value. Such events or changes in circumstances would require an immediate impairment test to be performed in accordance with SFAS 142. Differences in the identification of reporting units or the use of valuation techniques can result in materially different evaluations of impairment. Available for sale debt and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values are carried at fair value. Estimated fair values for securities are based on published or securities dealers market values. Debt securities are classified as held to maturity, and carried at amortized cost, only if the Company has a positive intent and ability to hold them to maturity. Debt securities that are not classified as held to maturity, along with all equity securities, are classified as either securities available for sale or trading securities. Unrealized holding gains or losses on debt and equity securities available for sale are excluded from net income and reported net of income taxes as other comprehensive income or loss. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any securities classified as trading securities during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, nor do they presently anticipate establishing a trading portfolio. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of its securities portfolio, taking into account the severity and duration of each unrealized loss as well as managements intent with regard to the securities, in order to determine if a decline in market value of any security below its carrying value is other than temporary. If such decline is deemed other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is adjusted through a charge recorded in the Companys statement of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were no other than temporary impairments in the securities portfolio. Loan Income Recognition. Interest income on loans is recorded using the level yield method. Loan origination fees and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the contractual loan terms. Accrual of interest is discontinued when its receipt is in doubt, which typically occurs when a loan becomes 90 days past due as to principal or interest. Any interest accrued to income in the year when interest accruals are discontinued is reversed. Payments on nonaccrual loans are generally applied to principal. Loans are returned to accrual status once the doubt concerning collectibility has been removed and the borrower has demonstrated performance in accordance with the loan terms and conditions for a minimum of twelve months. F 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources The Banks primary sources of funding for its lending and investment activities include deposits, loan and MBS payments, investment security maturities and redemptions, advances from the FHLBNY, and REPOs entered into with various financial institutions, including the FHLBNY. The Bank also sells selected multifamily residential and mixed use loans to the FNMA, and long term, one to four family residential real estate loans to either FNMA or SONYMA. The Company may additionally issue debt under appropriate circumstances. Although maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and investments are predictable sources of funds, deposits flows and prepayments on mortgage loans and MBS are influenced by interest rates, economic conditions and competition. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. It must additionally compete for deposit monies against the stock and bond markets, especially during periods of strong performance in those arenas. The Banks deposit flows are affected primarily by the pricing and marketing of its deposit products compared to its competitors, as well as the market performance of depositor investment alternatives such as the U.S. bond or equity markets. To the extent that the Bank is responsive to general market increases or declines in interest rates, its deposit flows should not be materially impacted. However, favorable performance of the equity or bond markets could adversely impact the Banks deposit flows. Deposits increased $93.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to a decrease of $295.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company experienced an increase of $86.1 million in CDs and $49.6 in money market accounts, due primarily to successful promotional campaigns. During the year ended December 31, 2005, while short term interest rates were steadily increasing, the Bank, primarily in order to control its overall cost of deposits, elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on its various deposit accounts at or near their existing levels. As a result, the attrition level on deposits increased during that time period (particularly in promotional money market accounts with expiring promotional offering rates) and exceeded the level of new deposits gathered through ongoing promotional programs. As a result, money market deposits declined $284.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. During 2005, the Banks rates on repricing core deposits lagged those of the price leaders in its markets. This strategy served to protect margin, not deposits. Commencing in the first quarter of 2006, there was a slight shift in the Banks deposit pricing posture for competitive reasons. With the average rate on new loans currently generally trending above six percent, attracting and retaining new deposits became more palatable to managing the Banks interest rate risk during 2006 than it was throughout 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, principal repayments totaled $326.8 million on real estate loans and $39.4 million on MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2005, principal repayments totaled $358.5 million on real estate loans and $89.1 million on MBS. The decrease in principal repayments on loans and MBS resulted from a reduction in borrower refinance activities associated with mortgage related assets as a result of increases in interest rates during the period July 2005 through September 2006. The decrease in principal repayments on MBS additionally reflected a reduction in their balance due to the sale of securities in May 2005. Since December 2002, the Bank has originated and sold multifamily residential mortgage loans in the secondary market to FNMA while retaining servicing and generating fee income while it services the loans. The Bank underwrites these loans using its customary underwriting standards, funds the loans, and sells them to FNMA at agreed upon pricing. Typically, the Bank seeks to sell loans with terms to maturity or repricing in excess of seven years from the origination date since it does not desire to retain such loans in portfolio as a result of the heightened interest rate risk they possess. Under the terms of the sales program, the Bank retains a portion of the associated credit risk. Once established, such amount continues to increase as long as the Bank continues to sell loans to FNMA under the program. The Bank retains this exposure until the portfolio of loans sold to FNMA is satisfied in its entirety or the Bank funds claims by FNMA for the maximum loss exposure. During the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Bank sold FNMA $145.4 million and $106.7 million of loans, respectively, pursuant to this program. In order to both replace liquidity lost by the attrition of deposits during 2005 and reduce the overall level of interest rate risk associated with its assets, the Company sold $274.2 million of investment securities and MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005, recognizing a net pre tax loss of $5.2 million on the sale. The cash proceeds of the sale were initially reinvested in overnight funds and other short term (90 day or less) investments with an average yield approximating 3.5%. The securities sold had an average yield of 3.62% and an average estimated duration of 2.4 years upon their disposition. Due in part to the growth in deposit funding during the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company was able to reduce its overall level of borrowings, which, because the interest rates associated with borrowings generally exceed those paid on deposits, helped minimize the increase in the average cost of its interest bearing liabilities while short term interest rates continued to rise. During the year ended December 31, 2006, borrowings declined by $45.2 million on a net basis, as the Company utilized deposit inflows and liquidity F 39 from its investment and MBS portfolios to fund loan growth. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Bank limited asset growth, and, as a result, undertook no new REPO borrowings or FHLBNY advances during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company engaged in two separate borrowing restructuring transactions. In the initial transaction, the Company restructured $145.0 million of its borrowings in order to lower their average cost. Borrowings with a weighted average cost of 4.46% and a weighted average term to maturity of one year were replaced with borrowings having a weighted average cost of 4.17% and a final maturity of ten years, callable after year one. Since portions of the original borrowings were satisfied at a discount, the Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $43,200 in interest expense related to the prepayment. In the second transaction, the Company restructured $170.0 million of wholesale borrowings. Under this restructuring, $120.0 million of REPOs and $50.0 million in FHLBNY advances were prepaid and replaced. The prepaid borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 4.53%, and were replaced with a combination of REPOs and FHLBNY advances having an initial weighted average interest rate of 3.79%. The replacement FHLBNY advances have a 4.4% fixed rate of interest, a final maturity of ten years and are callable by the FHLBNY after a Lockout Period of one, two or three years. The replacement REPOs have a ten year maturity and a Lockout Period of either one or two years. During the Lockout Period, the REPOs are variable rate (indexed to 3 month LIBOR), and have embedded interest rate caps and floors that ensure their reset interest rate will not exceed their initial interest rate. After the Lockout Period, if not called by the lender, the REPOs convert to an average fixed rate of 4.90%. The Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $764,000 in interest expense related to the prepayment. In the event that the Bank should require funds beyond its ability to generate them internally, an additional source of funds is available through use of its borrowing line at the FHLBNY. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had an additional potential borrowing capacity of $389.4 million available provided it owned the minimum required level of FHLBNY common stock (i.e., 4.5% of its outstanding FHLBNY borrowings). The Bank is subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements imposed by the OTS, which, as a general matter, are based on the amount and composition of an institutions assets. At December 31, 2006, the Bank was in compliance with all applicable regulatory capital requirements and was considered "well capitalized" for all regulatory purposes. The Bank uses its liquidity and capital resources primarily for the origination of real estate loans and the purchase of mortgage backed and other securities. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, real estate loan originations totaled $563.2 million and $574.2 million, respectively. Purchases of investment securities (excluding short term investments and federal funds sold) and MBS totaled $4.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $53.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline resulted from reduced levels of liquidity experienced during the period July 2005 through September 2006 (as a result of deposit outflows), that limited the funds available for investment purchases. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company repurchased 777,539 shares of its common stock into treasury. All shares repurchased were recorded at the acquisition cost, which totaled $11.0 million during the period. As of December 31, 2006, up to 1,686,610 shares remained available for purchase under authorized share purchase programs. Based upon the $14.01 per share closing price of its common stock as of December 31, 2006, the Holding Company would utilize $23.6 million in order to purchase all of the remaining authorized shares. For the Holding Company to complete these share purchases, it would likely require dividend distributions from the Bank. Contractual Obligations The Bank has outstanding at any time, a significant number of borrowings in the form of FHLBNY advances or REPOS. The Holding Company also has an outstanding $25.0 million non callable subordinated note payable due to mature in 2010, and $72.2 million of trust preferred borrowings from third parties due to mature in April 2034, which is callable at any time after April 2009. F 40 The Bank is obligated under leases for certain rental payments due on its branches and equipment. A summary of borrowings and lease obligations at December 31, 2006 is as follows: Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Less than One Year One Year to Three Years Over Three Years to Five Years Over Five Years Total at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands) CDs $961,009 $85,435 $18,225 $ $1,064,669 Weighted average interest rate of CDs (1) 4.73% 3.77% 3.96% % 4.64% Borrowings $210,000 $90,235 $66,000 $422,665 $788,900 Weighted average interest rate of borrowings 4.40% 5.34% 4.24% 4.66% 4.63% Operating lease obligations $1,141 $1,945 $1,650 $3,895 $8,631 Minimum data processing system obligation $752 $1,505 $1,003 $3,260 (1) The weighted average cost of CDs, inclusive of their contractual compounding of interest, was 4.76% at December 31, 2006. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Bank implemented a program in December 2002 to originate and sell multifamily residential mortgage loans in the secondary market to FNMA while retaining servicing. The Bank is required to retain a recourse obligation on all loans sold under this program, which will remain in effect until either the entire portfolio of loans sold to FNMA is satisfied or the Bank funds claims by FNMA for the full balance of the recourse obligation. In addition, as part of its loan origination business, the Bank has outstanding commitments to extend credit to third parties, which are subject to strict credit control assessments. Since many of these loan commitments expire prior to funding, in whole or in part, the contract amounts are not estimates of future cash flows. Less than One Year One Year to Three Years Over Three Years to Five Years Over Five Years Total at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Credit Commitments: Available lines of credit $71,595 $ $ $ $71,595 Other loan commitments 55,321 55,321 Recourse obligation on loans sold to FNMA 18,495 18,495 Total Credit Commitments $145,411 $ $ $ $145,411 Analysis of Net Interest Income The Companys profitability, like that of most banking institutions, is dependent primarily upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest earnings assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or borrowings. Net interest income depends on the relative amounts of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them. The following tables set forth certain information relating to the Companys consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and reflect the average yield on interest earning assets and average cost of interest bearing liabilities for the periods indicated. Such yields and costs are derived by dividing interest income or expense by the average balance of interest earning assets or interest bearing liabilities, respectively, for the periods indicated. Average balances are derived from daily balances. The yields and costs include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. All material changes in average balances and interest income or expense are discussed in the comparison of operating results commencing on page F 44. F 41 For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in Thousands) Average Average Average Average Yield/ Average Yield/ Average Yield/ Balance Interest Cost Balance Interest Cost Balance Interest Cost Assets: Interest earning assets: Real estate loans (1) $2,649,623 $155,510 5.87% $2,533,205 $148,442 5.86% $2,393,862 $148,844 6.22% Other loans 1,978 190 9.61 2,369 214 9.03 3,325 248 7.46 Investment securities (2) 32,609 2,276 6.98 68,315 2,602 3.81 47,384 1,745 3.68 MBS 177,490 6,850 3.86 324,002 11,699 3.61 618,471 21,091 3.41 Other 116,447 5,984 5.14 197,891 6,755 3.41 129,570 1,830 1.41 Total interest earning assets 2,978,147 170,810 5.74% 3,125,782 169,712 5.43% 3,192,612 $173,758 5.44% Non interest earning assets 148,493 150,765 159,580 Total assets $3,126,640 $3,276,547 $3,352,192 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity: Interest bearing liabilities: NOW, Super Now accounts $35,475 $361 1.02% $40,625 $408 1.00% $41,535 $410 0.99% Money Market accounts 463,885 12,038 2.60 611,673 9,773 1.60 806,582 11,745 1.46 Savings accounts 317,572 1,866 0.59 351,827 1,943 0.55 367,746 1,938 0.53 CDs 1,019,562 42,394 4.16 982,030 28,934 2.95 939,682 23,780 2.53 Borrowed Funds 797,318 36,681 4.60 807,800 36,283 4.49 726,083 29,903 4.12 Total interest bearing liabilities 2,633,812 93,340 3.54% 2,793,955 $77,341 2.77% 2,881,628 $67,776 2.35% Checking accounts 95,067 94,541 93,845 Other non interest bearing liabilities 104,562 101,889 100,926 Total liabilities 2,833,441 2,990,385 3,076,399 Stockholders equity 293,199 286,162 275,793 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $3,126,640 $3,276,547 $3,352,192 Net interest spread (3) 2.19% 2.66% 3.09% Net interest income/ interest margin (4) $77,470 2.60% $92,371 2.96% $105,982 3.22% Net interest earning assets $344,335 $331,827 $310,984 Ratio of interest earning assets to interest bearing liabilities 113.07% 111.88% 110.79% (1) In computing the average balance of real estate loans, non performing loans have been included. Interest income includes loan fees as defined under SFAS 91, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leasesan amendment of FASB Statements No. 13, 60, and 65 and a rescission of FASB Statement No. 17." Interest income also includes applicable prepayment fees and late charges under SFAS 91. (2) Includes interest bearing deposits in other banks. (3) Net interest spread represents the difference between the average yield on interest earning assets and the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (4) The interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets. F 42 Rate/Volume Analysis. The following table represents the extent to which variations in interest rates and the volume of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities have affected interest income and interest expense during the periods indicated. Information is provided in each category with respect to: (i) variances attributable to fluctuations in volume (change in volume multiplied by prior rate), (ii) variances attributable to rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume), and (iii) the net change. Variances attributable to the combined impact of volume and rate have been allocated proportionately to the changes due to volume and the changes due to rate. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Interest earning assets: (Dollars in Thousands) Real Estate Loans $6,818 $250 $7,068 $8,440 $(8,842) $(402) $13,830 $(26,399) $(12,569) Other loans (37) 13 (24) (79) 45 (34) (22) (28) (50) Investment securities (1,927) 1,601 (326) 783 74 857 (525) (91) (616) MBS (5,475) 626 (4,849) (10,336) 944 (9,392) 3,683 (576) 3,107 Other (3,487) 2,716 (771) 1,650 3,275 4,925 (313) (650) (963) Total $(4,108) $5,206 $1,098 $458 $(4,504) $(4,046) $16,653 $(27,744) $(11,091) Interest bearing liabilities: NOW and Super Now accounts $(54) $7 ($47) $(8) $6 $(2) $86 $(20) $66 Money market accounts (3,107) 5,372 2,265 (2,970) 998 (1,972) 1,857 (852) 1,005 Savings accounts (204) 127 (77) (77) 82 5 (15) (452) (467) CDs 1,342 12,118 13,460 1,140 4,014 5,154 1,784 (2,736) (952) Borrowed funds (481) 879 398 3,529 2,851 6,380 3,167 (6,106) (2,939) Total (2,504) 18,503 15,999 1,614 7,951 9,565 6,879 (10,166) (3,287) Net change in net interest income $(1,604) $(13,297) $(14,901) $(1,156) $(12,455) $(13,611) $9,774 $(17,578) $(7,804) Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 Assets. Assets totaled $3.17 billion at December 31, 2006, a slight increase from total assets of $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005. Real estate loans increased $91.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due primarily to originations of $563.2 million during the period (as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity), that were partially offset by amortization of $326.8 million and sales to FNMA of $145.4 million. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, real estate loan originations totaled $563.2 million and $574.2 million, respectively. The average rate on total loan originations during the year ended December 31, 2006 was 6.43%, compared to 5.77% in the year ended December 31, 2005. Real estate loan prepayment and amortization during the year ended December 31, 2006 approximated 12% of the loan portfolio on an annualized basis, compared to 14% during the year ended December 2005. The decline in prepayment and amortization levels resulted from increases in interest rates from January 2006 to December 2006. Federal funds sold and other short term assets increased $18.7 million during the comparative period as cash flows from maturing investment securities and principal repayments on MBS were reinvested in short term securities and federal funds sold, since the flattened yield curve provided benefits to retaining the funds in short term investments. Partially offsetting the increases in real estate loans and federal funds sold and other short term assets were declines in MBS available for sale and investment securities available for sale of $39.0 million and $15.3 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in MBS available for sale resulted primarily from principal repayments of $39.4 million. The decrease in investment securities available for sale resulted primarily from maturities of $17.1 million. In addition, cash and due from banks declined $13.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 as excess liquidity that was maintained in cash and due from banks at December 31, 2005 was utilized for operations during the year ended December 31, 2006. Liabilities. Total liabilities increased $48.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. Deposits increased $93.8 million during the period (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Partially offsetting this increase was a net decline in borrowings (REPOS and FHLBNY advances) of $45.2 million. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of borrowing activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity declined $1.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due to cash dividends of $19.7 million and treasury stock repurchases of $11.0 million during the period. Additionally, accumulated other comprehensive loss (which is recorded as a negative balance within stockholders equity) increased by $3.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. The change in accumulated comprehensive loss resulted primarily from a charge of $3.8 million caused by the adoption of SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"). The increase of $3.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss caused a corresponding decrease in stockholders equity during the period. F 43 Partially offsetting the decrease to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2006 were net income of $30.6 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $910,000, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. and Certain Affiliates ("ESOP") and The Recognition and Retention Plan for Outside Directors, Officers and Employees of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("RRP") stock benefit plans. The ESOP and RRP possess investments in the Holding Companys common stock that are recorded as reductions in stockholders equity ("Contra Equity Balances"). As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced in a corresponding amount, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 Assets. Assets totaled $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005, a decrease of $251.0 million from total assets of $3.38 billion at December 31, 2004. The decline in assets was experienced primarily in MBS available for sale, which decreased $326.0 million during the period, principally as a result of the sale of $236.9 million of MBS available for sale (see "Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources") and MBS principal payments received totaling $89.0 million. In addition, federal funds sold and other short term investments declined $43.3 million, as the Bank utilized a portion of these short term assets in order to provide operational liquidity while deposit funding was declining. Partially offsetting the decline in MBS and federal funds sold and other short term investments during the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $115.0 million in real estate loans. The increase was attributable to originations of $574.2 million during the period, as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity, that were partially offset by amortization of $358.3 million and sales to FNMA of $108.2 million. Liabilities. Total liabilities decreased $261.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Deposits declined $295.3 million during the period, which was partially offset by an increase of $25.0 million in FHLBNY Advances. (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity increased $10.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due to net income of $36.2 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, tax benefits on stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the ESOP and the RRP stock benefit plans. As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Offsetting the increase to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2005 were cash dividends of $19.9 million and treasury stock repurchases of $12.2 million during the period, along with an increase in other comprehensive loss of $100,000 resulting primarily from the addition of a minimum pension liability of $276,000 during the period. Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 General. Net income was $30.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $5.6 million from net income of $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net interest income decreased $14.9 million, non interest income increased $7.2 million and non interest expense increased $1.2 million, resulting in a decline in pre tax net income of $8.8 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million as a result of the decline in pre tax net income. Net Interest Income. The discussion of net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 presented below should be read in conjunction with the tables on pages F 42 and F 43, which set forth certain information related to the consolidated statements of operations for those periods, and which also present the average yield on assets and average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. The yields and costs were derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of their related assets or liabilities during the periods represented. Average balances were derived from average daily balances. The yields include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. F 44 Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased $14.9 million to $77.5 million, from $92.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was attributable to an increase of $16.0 million in interest expense that was slightly offset by an increase of $1.1 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 47 basis points, from 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 2.19% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 2.96% to 2.60% during the same period. The tightening of monetary policy by the FOMC from the second half of 2004 through June 30, 2006, in combination with various market factors suppressing increases in both general long term interest rates and interest rates offered on real estate loans within the Banks lending market, resulted in a narrowing spread between short and long term interest rates, which negatively impacted net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 77 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. The increase resulted primarily from the following: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, became a larger percentage of the Banks total interest bearing liabilities as a result of runoff in average deposit balances during 2006, and (ii) the average cost of money market deposits and CDs increased by 100 basis points and 121 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2006. (See "Interest Expense" below). Partially offsetting the increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities was an increase of 31 basis points in the average yield on interest earning assets during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average balance of real estate loans (the Banks highest yielding interest earning asset) as a percentage of total interest earning assets, which was coupled with an increase in the average yields on real estate loans and MBS of 1 basis point and 25 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period. The increase in the composition of real estate loans as a percentage of interest earning assets resulted from both loan origination activity during 2006 coupled with a reduction in the level of investment securities and MBS during the same period, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and MBS were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. The increase in average yield on real estate loans reflected ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates during 2006. The increase in average yield on MBS reflected ongoing increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006. Interest Income. Interest income was $170.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.1 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income on real estate loans increased $7.1 million and was partially offset by decreases in interest income on MBS, investment securities and other short term investments of $4.8 million, $326,000 and $771,000, respectively, during the period. The increase in interest income on real estate loans resulted primarily from growth in their average balance of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth reflected real estate loan originations of $563.2 during 2006, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The one basis point increase in average yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates from October 2005 through June 2006, which resulted in an increase in the average origination rate on real estate loans from 5.77% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 6.43% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from a decreased average balance of $146.5 million (resulting primarily from the sale of $236.9 million of MBS in May 2005 and principal repayments on MBS of $39.4 million during 2006), that was partially offset by an increase of 25 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 (resulting from increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006). The decline in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments reflected declines in their average balances of $35.7 million and $81.4 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and other short term investments were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $16.0 million, to $93.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2006, from $77.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth resulted primarily from increased interest expense of $13.5 million related to CDs and $2.3 million related to money market accounts. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from an increase in their average cost of 121 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during 2006, as most of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2005 matured F 45 during this timeframe. In addition, the average balance of CDs increased $37.5 million during the period, reflecting successful gathering of new CDs from promotional activities during 2006. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further discussion). At December 31, 2006, the Banks liquid assets approximated 5.75% of total assets. Assessments. Savings associations are required by OTS regulation to pay semi annual assessments to the OTS to fund its operations. The regulations base the assessment for individual savings associations, other than those with total assets never exceeding $100.0 million, on three components: the size of the association (on which the basic assessment is based); the associations supervisory condition, which results in percentage increases for any savings institution with a composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 in its most recent safety and soundness examination; and the complexity of the associations operations, which results in percentage increases for a savings association that managed over $1 billion in trust assets, serviced loans for other institutions aggregating more than $1 billion, or had certain off balance sheet assets aggregating more than $1 billion. Savings and loan holding companies are also required to pay semi annual assessments to the OTS. For the year ended December 31, 2006, a total of $13,000 in assessments were paid for the Bank and Holding Company. Branching. Subject to certain limitations, HOLA and OTS regulations permit federally chartered savings associations to establish branches in any state of the United States. The authority to establish such a branch is available: (i) in states that expressly authorize branches of savings associations located in another state, and (ii) to an association that either satisfies the QTL test or qualifies as a domestic building and loan association under the Code, which imposes qualification requirements similar to those for a QTL under HOLA (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations QTL Test). HOLA and OTS regulations preempt any state law purporting to regulate branching by federal savings associations. Community Reinvestment. Under the Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA"), as implemented by OTS regulations, a savings association possesses a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with its safe and sound operation, to help satisfy the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institutions discretion to develop the types of products and services it believes are most appropriate to its particular community. The CRA requires the OTS, in connection with its examination of a savings association, to assess the associations record of satisfying the credit needs of its community and consider such record in its evaluation of certain applications by the association. The assessment is composed of three tests: (i) a lending test, to evaluate the institutions record of making loans in its service areas; (ii) an investment test, to evaluate the institutions record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and (iii) a service test, to evaluate the institutions delivery of services through its branches, automated teller machines and other offices. The CRA also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. The Bank received an "Outstanding" CRA rating in its most recent examination. Regulations additionally require that the Bank publicly disclose certain agreements that are in fulfillment of the CRA. The Bank has no such agreements. Transactions with Related Parties. The Banks authority to engage in transactions with its affiliates is limited by OTS regulations, Sections 23A, 23B, 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act (FRA), Regulation W issued by the Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"), as well as additional limitations adopted by the Director of the OTS. OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates conform to Regulation W. These provisions, among other matters, prohibit, limit or place restrictions upon a savings institution extending credit to, or entering into certain transactions with, its affiliates, which, for the Bank, would include the Holding Company, principal shareholders, directors and executive officers. OTS regulations include additional restrictions on savings associations under Section 11 of HOLA, including provisions prohibiting a savings association from: (i) advancing a loan to an affiliate engaged in non bank holding company activities; and (ii) purchasing or investing in securities issued by an affiliate that is not a subsidiary. The OTS regulations also F 25 include certain exemptions from these prohibitions. The FRB and the OTS require each depository institution that is subject to Sections 23A and 23B to implement policies and procedures to ensure compliance with Regulation W and the OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates. Section 402 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes Oxley") prohibits the extension of personal loans to directors and executive officers of issuers (as defined in Sarbanes Oxley). The prohibition, however, does not apply to any loan by an insured depository institution, such as the Bank, if the loan is subject to the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the FRA, as implemented by Regulation O (12 CFR 215). The Banks authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers, and shareholders owning 10% or more of the Holding Companys outstanding common stock, as well as to entities controlled by such persons, is additionally governed by the requirements of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the FRA and Regulation O of the FRB enacted thereunder. Among other matters, these provisions require that extensions of credit to insiders: (i) be made on terms substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons and that do not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features; and (ii) not exceed certain amount limitations individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of the associations capital. Regulation O additionally requires that extensions of credit in excess of certain limits be approved in advance by the associations board of directors. The Holding Company and Bank both presently prohibit loans to Directors and executive management. Enforcement. Under FDICIA, the OTS possesses primary enforcement responsibility over federally chartered savings associations and has the authority to bring enforcement action against all institution affiliated parties, including any controlling stockholder or any shareholder, attorney, appraiser or accountant who knowingly or recklessly participates in any violation of applicable law or regulation, breach of fiduciary duty or certain other wrongful actions that cause, or are likely to cause, more than minimal loss or other significant adverse effect on an insured savings association. Civil penalties cover a wide series of violations and actions and range from $5,000 for each day during which violations of law, regulations, orders, and certain written agreements and conditions continue, up to $1 million per day if the person obtained a substantial pecuniary gain as a result of such violation or knowingly or recklessly caused a substantial loss to the institution. Criminal penalties for certain financial institution crimes include fines of up to $1 million and imprisonment for up to 30 years. In addition, regulators possess substantial discretion to take enforcement action against an institution that fails to comply with regulatory structure, particularly with respect to capital requirements. Possible enforcement actions range from the imposition of a capital plan and capital directive to receivership, conservatorship, or the termination of deposit insurance. Under FDICIA, the FDIC has the authority to recommend to the Director of the OTS that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings association. If action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC possesses authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Standards for Safety and Soundness. Pursuant to FDICIA, as amended by the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, the OTS, together with the other federal bank regulatory agencies, has adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other features, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. In addition, the OTS has adopted regulations pursuant to FDICIA that authorize, but do not require, the OTS to order an institution that has been given notice by the OTS that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the OTS must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized association is subject under the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Savings Associations Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action"). If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the OTS may seek enforcement in judicial proceedings and the imposition of civil money penalties. Real Estate Lending Standards. The OTS and the other federal banking agencies have adopted regulations prescribing standards for extensions of credit that are (i) secured by real estate, or (ii) made for the purpose of financing the construction of improvements on real estate. The regulations require each savings association to establish and maintain written internal real estate lending standards that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices and appropriate to the size of the association and the nature and scope of its real estate lending activities. The standards must additionally conform to accompanying OTS guidelines, which include loan to value ratios for the different types of real estate loans. Associations are permitted to make a limited amount of loans that do not conform to the loan to value limitations provided such exceptions are reviewed and justified appropriately. The guidelines additionally contain a number of lending situations in which exceptions to the loan to value standards are permitted. F 26 In late 2006, the OTS adopted guidance entitled "Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices" (the "CRE Guidance"), to address concentrations of commercial real estate loans in savings associations. The CRE Guidance reinforces and enhances the OTS existing regulations and guidelines for real estate lending and loan portfolio management, but does not establish specific commercial real estate lending limits. Rather, the CRE Guidance seeks to promote sound risk management practices that will enable savings associations to continue to pursue commercial real estate lending in a safe and sound manner. The CRE Guidance applies to savings associations with an accumulation of credit concentration exposures and asks that the associations quantify the additional risk such exposures may pose. Such quantification should include the stratification of the commercial real estate portfolio by, among other qualities, property type, geographic market, tenant concentrations, tenant industries, developer concentrations and risk rating. In addition, an institution should perform periodic market analyses for the various property types and geographic markets represented in its portfolio. Further, an institution with commercial real estate concentration risk should also perform portfolio level stress tests or sensitivity analysis to quantify the impact of changing economic conditions on asset quality, earnings and capital. The Bank believes that the CRE Guidance will not have a material impact on the conduct of its business and that it will be able to effectively implement requirements and suggestions set forth in the CRE Guidance during 2007. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. Under the OTS prompt corrective action regulations, the OTS is required to take certain, and authorized to take other, supervisory actions against undercapitalized savings associations. For this purpose, a savings association is placed in one of five categories based on its capital: "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," and "critically undercapitalized." Generally, a capital restoration plan must be filed with the OTS within 45 days of the date an association receives notice that it is "undercapitalized." In addition, the institution becomes subject to various mandatory supervisory actions, including restrictions on growth of assets and other forms of expansion. Generally, under the OTS regulations, a federally chartered savings association is treated as well capitalized if its total risk based capital ratio is 10% or greater, its Tier 1 risk based capital ratio is 6% or greater, its leverage ratio is 5% or greater, and it is not subject to any order or directive by the OTS to meet a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank satisfied all criteria necessary to be categorized "well capitalized" under the prompt corrective action regulatory framework. When appropriate, the OTS can require corrective action by a savings association holding company under the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Savings associations are required to pay a deposit insurance premium. The amount of the premium is determined based upon a risk based assessment system, which was amended effective January 1, 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Bank was not required to pay any assessments on its deposits under the previously existing FDIC policies. Under the amended system, the FDIC assigns an institution to one of four risk categories entitled Risk Category I, II, III and IV, with Risk Category I considered most favorable and Risk Category IV considered least favorable. Risk Category I contains all well capitalized institutions with capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, and liquidity component ratings ("CAMEL Component Ratings") of either 1 or 2. Risk Category II contains all institutions that are adequately capitalized and possess CAMEL Component Ratings of either 1, 2 or 3. Risk Category III contains either undercapitalized institutions that have CAMEL Composite Ratings of 1, 2 or 3 or adequately capitalized institutions that have CAMEL Composite Ratings of 4 or 5. Risk Category IV contains all institutions that are undercapitalized and have a CAMEL Composite Ratings of 4 or 5. The Bank currently falls within Risk Category I. Base assessment rates for institutions within Risk Category I range from 2 to 4 basis points, depending upon a combination of the institutions CAMEL Component Ratings and financial ratios. The base assessment rates are fixed at 7 basis points, 25 basis points and 40 basis points for institutions within the Risk Categories II, III and IV, respectively. The FDIC has the flexibility to adjust rates, without further notice and comment rulemaking, provided that no such adjustment can be greater than 3 basis points from one quarter to the next, adjustments cannot result in rates more than 3 basis points above or below the base rates and rates cannot be negative. Effective January 1, 2007, the FDIC set the assessment rates at 3 basis points above the base rates. Assessment rates will, therefore, range from 5 to 43 basis points of deposits. Under the amended system, the assessment rate for the Banks deposits is 5 basis points. The FDIC also established 1.25% of estimated insured deposits as the designated reserve ratio of the DIF. The FDIC is authorized to change the assessment rates as necessary, subject to the previously discussed limitations, to maintain the required reserve ratio of 1.25%. The DIF currently satisfies the reserve ratio requirement. If the FDIC determines that assessment rates should be increased, institutions in all risk categories could be affected. The FDIC has exercised this authority several times in the past and could raise insurance assessment rates in the future. In November 2006, the FDIC notified the Bank that it has been granted a credit of $1.6 million that will apply against its insurance premiums commencing in 2007. This credit resulted from final implementation of a provision of the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 that compensated financial institutions such as the Bank that were required to pay insurance premiums prior to 1996 while other financial institutions that had units that operated under industrial loan company and thrift charters were not. The Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 amended the FDIA to recapitalize the SAIF (which was merged with the BIF into the newly formed DIF on March 31, 2006) and expand the assessment base for the payments of Financing Corporation ("FICO") bonds. FICO bonds were sold by the federal government in order to finance the recapitalization of the SAIF and BIF insurance funds that was necessitated following payments from the funds to compensate depositors of federally insured depository institutions that experienced bankruptcy F 27 and dissolution during the 1980s and 1990s. For the fourth quarter of 2006, the quarterly adjusted rate of assessment for FICO bonds is 0.0124%. The Banks total expense in 2006 for the FICO bonds assessment was $257,000. Privacy and Security Protection. The OTS has adopted regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of The Gramm Leach Bliley Act of 1999 ("Gramm Leach"). The regulations require financial institutions to adopt procedures to protect customers and their "non public personal information." The regulations require the Bank to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares "non public personal information," to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. In addition, the Bank is required to provide its customers the ability to "opt out" of the sharing of their personal information with unaffiliated third parties, if the sharing of such information does not satisfy any of the permitted exceptions. The Banks existing privacy protection policy complies with the regulations. The Bank is additionally subject to regulatory guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information to implement certain provisions of Gramm Leach. The guidelines describe the federal banking agencies expectations for the creation, implementation and maintenance of an information security program, including administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in the guidelines are intended to insure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, and protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records and unauthorized access to or use of such records or information that could result in substantial customer harm or inconvenience. Gramm Leach additionally permits each state to enact legislation that is more protective of consumers personal information. Currently, there are a number of privacy bills pending in the New York legislature. Management of the Company cannot predict the impact, if any, of these bills if enacted. Internet Banking. Technological developments are dramatically altering the methods by which most companies, including financial institutions, conduct their business. The growth of the Internet is prompting banks to reconsider business strategies and adopt alternative distribution and marketing systems. The federal banking regulatory agencies have conducted seminars and published materials targeted at various aspects of Internet banking and have indicated their intention to re evaluate their regulations to ensure they encourage bank efficiency and competitiveness consistent with safe and sound banking practices. The Company cannot assure that federal bank regulatory agencies will not adopt new regulations that will materially affect or restrict the Banks Internet operations. Insurance Activities. As a federal savings association, the Bank is generally permitted to engage in certain insurance activities through subsidiaries. OTS regulations prohibit depository institutions from conditioning the extension of credit to individuals upon either the purchase of an insurance product or annuity or an agreement by the consumer not to purchase an insurance product or annuity from an entity not affiliated with the depository institution. The regulations additionally require prior disclosure of this prohibition if such products are offered to credit applicants. Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") System. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which is one of the twelve regional FHLBs composing the FHLB System. Each FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for its member institutions. Any advances from the FHLBNY must be secured by specified types of collateral, and long term advances may be obtained only for the purpose of providing funds for residential housing finance. The Bank, as a member of the FHLBNY, is currently required to acquire and hold shares of FHLBNY Class B stock. The Class B stock has a par value of $100 per share and is redeemable upon five years notice, subject to certain conditions. The Class B stock has two subclasses, one for membership stock purchase requirements and the other for activity based stock purchase requirements. The minimum stock investment requirement in the FHLBNY Class B stock is the sum of the membership stock purchase requirement, determined on an annual basis at the end of each calendar year, and the activity based stock purchase requirement, determined on a daily basis. For the Bank, the membership stock purchase requirement is 0.2% of "mortgage related assets," as defined by the FHLBNY, which consist primarily of residential mortgage loans and MBS held by the Bank. The activity based stock purchase requirement for the Bank is equal to the sum of: (i) 4.5% of outstanding borrowings from the FHLBNY; (ii) 4.5% of the outstanding principal balance of the "acquired member assets," as defined by the FHLBNY, and delivery commitments for acquired member assets; (iii) a specified dollar amount related to certain off balance sheet items, which for the Bank is zero; and (iv) a specific percentage range from 0% to 5% of the carrying value on the FHLBNYs balance sheet of derivative contracts between the FHLBNY and its members, which is also zero for the Bank. The Bank was in compliance with these requirements with an investment in FHLBNY stock of $31.3 million at December 31, 2006. The FHLBNY can adjust the specific percentages and dollar amount periodically within the ranges established by the FHLBNY capital plan. Federal Reserve System. The Bank is subject to provisions of the FRA and FRB regulations pursuant to which savings associations are required to maintain non interest earning cash reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). FRB regulations generally require that reserves be maintained in the amount of 3% of the aggregate of transaction accounts in excess of $8.5 million through $45.8 million (subject to adjustment by the FRB) plus a reserve of 10% (subject to adjustment by the FRB F 28 between 8% and 14% against the portion of total transaction accounts in excess of $45.8 million). The initial $8.5 million of otherwise reservable balances are currently exempt from the reserve requirements, however, the exemption is adjusted by the FRB at the end of each year. The Bank is in compliance with the foregoing reserve requirements. Because required reserves must be maintained in the form of either vault cash, a non interest bearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank, or a pass through account as defined by the FRB, the effect of this reserve requirement is to reduce the Banks interest earning assets. The balances maintained to satisfy the FRB reserve requirements may be used to satisfy liquidity requirements imposed by the OTS. Depository institutions are additionally authorized to borrow from the Federal Reserve discount window, however, FRB regulations require such institutions to hold reserves in the form of vault cash or deposits with Federal Reserve Banks in order to borrow. Anti Money Laundering and Customer Identification. The Company is subject to OTS regulations implementing the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 ("PATRIOT Act"). The PATRIOT Act provides the federal government with powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing and broadened anti money laundering requirements. By way of amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the PATRIOT Act enacted measures intended to encourage information sharing among bank regulatory and law enforcement agencies. In addition, certain provisions of Title III and the related OTS regulations impose affirmative obligations on a broad range of financial institutions, including banks and thrifts. Title III imposes the following requirements, among others, with respect to financial institutions: (i) establishment of anti money laundering programs; (ii) establishment of procedures for obtaining identifying information from customers opening new accounts, including verifying their identity within a reasonable period of time; (iii) establishment of enhanced due diligence policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report money laundering; and (iv) prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks and compliance with recordkeeping obligations with respect to correspondent accounts of foreign banks. In addition, bank regulators are directed to consider a holding companys effectiveness in preventing money laundering when ruling on FRA and Bank Merger Act applications. Regulation of Holding Company The Holding Company is a non diversified unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of HOLA. As such, it is required to register with the OTS and is subject to OTS regulations, examinations, supervision and reporting requirements. In addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over the Holding Companys non savings association subsidiaries. Among other effects, this authority permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of a subsidiary savings association. HOLA prohibits a savings association holding company, directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries, from acquiring another savings association or holding company thereof, without prior written approval of the OTS; acquiring or retaining, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non subsidiary savings association, non subsidiary holding company, or non subsidiary company engaged in activities other than those permitted by HOLA; or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the FDIC. In evaluating an application by a holding company to acquire a savings association, the OTS must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and savings association involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community, and competitive factors. As a unitary savings and loan holding company, the Holding Company generally is not restricted under existing laws as to the types of business activities in which it may engage, provided that the Bank continues to satisfy the QTL test (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations QTL Test for a discussion of the QTL requirements). Upon any non supervisory acquisition by the Holding Company of another savings association or a savings bank that satisfies the QTL test and is deemed to be a savings association by the OTS and that will be held as a separate subsidiary, the Holding Company will become a multiple savings association holding company and will be subject to limitations on the types of business activities in which it may engage. HOLA limits the activities of a multiple savings association holding company and its non insured association subsidiaries primarily to activities permissible for bank holding companies under Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, subject to prior approval of the OTS, and to other activities authorized by OTS regulation. The OTS is prohibited from approving any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings association holding company controlling savings associations in more than one state, subject to two exceptions: an acquisition of a savings association in another state (i) in a supervisory transaction, or (ii) pursuant to authority under the laws of the state of the association to be acquired that specifically permit such acquisitions. The conditions imposed upon interstate acquisitions by those states that have enacted authorizing legislation vary. F 29 Gramm Leach additionally restricts the powers of new unitary savings and loan association holding companies. A unitary savings and loan holding company that is "grandfathered," i.e., became a unitary savings and loan holding company pursuant to an application filed with the OTS prior to May 4, 1999, such as the Holding Company, retains the authority it possessed under the law in existence as of May 4, 1999. All other savings and loan holding companies are limited to financially related activities permissible for bank holding companies, as defined under Gramm Leach. Gramm Leach also prohibits non financial companies from acquiring grandfathered savings and loan association holding companies. The Bank must file a notice with the OTS prior to the payment of any dividends or other capital distributions to the Holding Company (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Limitation on Capital Distributions). Federal Securities Laws The Holding Companys common stock is registered with the SEC under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act. It is subject to the periodic reporting, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements under the Exchange Act. Item 1A. Risk Factors The Banks focus on multifamily and commercial real estate lending may subject it to greater risk of an adverse impact on operations from a decline in the economy. The majority of loans in the Banks portfolio are secured by multifamily residential property. Multifamily loans are generally viewed as exposing lenders to a greater risk of loss than one to four family residential loans and typically involve higher loan principal amounts. Although multifamily loans are generally non recourse, are underwritten based upon the cash flow generated by the collateral property and have loan to value ratios of less than 80%, in a decline in the economy, a borrower experiencing financial difficulties in connection with one income producing property may default on all of its outstanding loans, even if the properties securing the other loans are generating positive cash flow. In addition, large loans tend to expose the Bank to a greater degree of risk due to the potential impact of losses from any one loan or concentration of loans to one borrower relative to the size of the Banks capital position. As part of the Companys strategic plan, it has increased its emphasis on commercial real estate loans over the past five years. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally larger and involve a greater degree of risk than one to four family and multifamily residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon successful operation or management of the collateral properties, repayment of such loans are generally subject to a greater extent to prevailing conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Further, the collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business. Multifamily and commercial real estate loans additionally involve a greater risk than one to four family residential mortgage loans because economic and real estate conditions, and government regulations such as rent control and rent stabilization laws, which are outside the control of the borrower or the Bank, could impair the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of such properties. As a result, rental income might not rise sufficiently over time to satisfy increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in overhead expenses (i.e., utilities, taxes, etc.). Impaired loans are thus difficult to identify before they become problematic. In addition, if the cash flow from a collateral property is reduced (e.g., if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrowers ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. Dependence on economic and real estate conditions and geographic concentration in market area. The Bank gathers deposits primarily from the communities and neighborhoods in close proximity to its branches. The Banks primary lending area is the NYC metropolitan area, although its overall lending area is much larger, and extends approximately 150 miles in each direction from its corporate headquarters in Brooklyn. The majority of the Banks mortgage loans are secured by properties located in its primary lending area, most of which are secured by real estate located in the NYC boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Banks results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. A deterioration in economic conditions in the NYC metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact upon the quality of the Banks loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and, accordingly, on the Companys results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for the Banks mortgage loans are located strongly influence the level of the Banks non performing loans and the value of its collateral. Real estate values are affected by, among other items, fluctuations in general or local economic conditions, supply and demand, changes in governmental rules or F 30 policies, the availability of loans to potential purchasers and acts of nature. Declines in real estate markets have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact the Companys results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. The Banks allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The amount of inherent loan losses which could be ultimately realized is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that could be beyond the Banks control. Such losses could exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the Banks allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to satisfy actual loan losses should such losses be realized. Increases in interest rates may reduce the Companys profitability. The Banks primary source of income is its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest earning assets and the interest expense incurred on its interest bearing liabilities. The one year interest rate sensitivity gap is the difference between interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year and interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year, expressed as a percentage of total assets. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in its cost of liabilities relative to its yield on assets, and thus decrease its net interest income. In addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and MBS are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage redemption rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates will vary due to several factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, and other demographic variables. However, the most significant factors affecting prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. Based upon historical experience, if interest rates were to rise, the Bank would expect the demand for multifamily loans to decline. Decreased loan origination volume would likely negatively impact the Banks interest income. In addition, if interest rates were to rise rapidly and result in an economic decline, the Bank would expect its level of non performing loans to increase. Such an increase in non performing loans may result in an increase to the allowance for loan losses and possible increased charge offs, which would negatively impact the Companys net income. As a federally chartered savings bank, the Bank is required to monitor changes in its NPV. In addition, the Bank monitors its NPV ratio, which is the NPV divided by the estimated market value of total assets. The NPV ratio can be viewed as a corollary to the Banks capital ratios. To monitor its overall sensitivity to changes in interest rates, the Bank simulates the effect of instantaneous changes in interest rates of up to 200 basis points on its assets and liabilities. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and the Bank cannot predict future FOMC actions or other factors that will cause interest rates to change. Risks related to changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, as the Banks chartering agency, and the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. Such regulation limits the manner in which the Holding Company and the Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Banks depositors, and not to benefit the Bank or its creditors. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. For further information regarding the laws and regulations that affect the Holding Company and the Bank, see "Item 1. Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations," and "Item 1. Business Regulation Regulation of Holding Company." Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within the control of the Holding Company or the Bank. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws may cause the Companys results of operations to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the OTS, significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions would have a material impact on the Bank, and therefore, on the Companys results of operations. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect profitability. The Banks retail banking and a significant portion of its lending business are concentrated in the NYC metropolitan area. The NYC banking environment is extremely competitive. The Banks competition for loans exists principally from savings banks, commercial banks, mortgage banks and insurance companies. The Bank has faced sustained competition for the F 31 origination of multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. Management anticipates that the current level of competition for multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans will continue for the foreseeable future, and this competition may inhibit the Banks ability to maintain its current level and pricing of such loans. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. In addition, it must also compete for deposit monies against the stock markets and mutual funds, especially during periods of strong performance in the equity markets. Over the previous decade, consolidation in the financial services industry, coupled with the emergence of Internet banking, has altered the deposit gathering landscape and may increase competitive pressures on the Bank. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties The headquarters of both the Holding Company and the Bank are located at 209 Havemeyer Street, Brooklyn, New York 11211. The headquarters building is fully owned by the Bank. The Bank conducts its business through twenty one full service retail banking offices located throughout Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Nassau County, New York. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Company is routinely named as a defendant in or party to various pending or threatened legal actions or proceedings. Certain of these matters may seek substantial monetary damages. In the opinion of management, the Company is involved in no actions or proceedings that will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Holding Companys common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market and quoted under the symbol "DCOM." Prior to June 15, 1998, the Holding Companys common stock was quoted under the symbol "DIME." The following table indicates the high and low sales price for the Holding Companys common stock and dividends declared during the periods indicated. The Holding Companys common stock began trading on June 26, 1996, the date of the initial public offering. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2006 Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2005 Quarter Ended Dividends Declared High Sales Price Low Sales Price Dividends Declared High Sales Price Low Sales Price March 31st $0.14 $15.55 $13.46 $0.14 $17.41 $15.05 June 30th 0.14 14.58 13.49 0.14 15.62 13.96 September 30th 0.14 14.89 13.39 0.14 16.52 14.13 December 31st 0.14 14.80 13.66 0.14 15.24 13.78 On December 29, 2006, the final trading date in the fiscal year, the Holding Companys common stock closed at $14.01. Management estimates that the Holding Company had approximately 4,300 shareholders of record as of March 11, 2007, including persons or entities holding stock in nominee or street name through various brokers and banks. There were 36,456,354 shares of Holding Company common stock outstanding at December 31, 2006. On August 21, 2001, the Holding Company paid a 50% common stock dividend to all shareholders of record as of July 31, 2001. On April 24, 2002, the Holding Company paid a 50% common stock dividend to all shareholders of record as of April 1, 2002. On March 16, 2004, the Holding Company paid a 50% common stock dividend to all shareholders of record F 32 as of March 1, 2004. Each of these dividends had the effect of a three for two stock split. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company paid cash dividends totaling $19.7 million, representing $0.56 per outstanding common share. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Holding Company paid cash dividends totaling $19.9 million, representing $0.56 per outstanding common share. On January 18, 2007, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share to all shareholders of record as of January 31, 2007. This dividend was paid on February 15, 2007. The Holding Company is subject to the requirements of Delaware law, which generally limits dividends to an amount equal to the excess of net assets (i.e., the amount by which total assets exceed total liabilities) over statutory capital, or if no such excess exists, to net profits for the current and or immediately preceding fiscal year. As the principal asset of the Holding Company, the Bank could be called upon to provide funds for the Holding Companys payment of dividends (See "Item 1 Business Regulation Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Limitation on Capital Distributions"). (See also Notes to the Companys Audited Financial Statements for a discussion of limitations on distributions from the Bank to the Holding Company). In April 2000, the Holding Company issued $25.0 million in subordinated notes payable, with a stated annual coupon rate of 9.25%. Pursuant to the provisions of the notes, the Holding Company is required to first satisfy the interest obligation on the notes, which approximates $2.4 million annually, prior to the authorization and payment of common stock cash dividends. Management of the Holding Company does not believe that this requirement will materially affect its ability to pay dividends to its common shareholders. In March 2004, the Holding Company issued $72.2 million in trust preferred debt, with a stated annual coupon rate of 7.0%. Pursuant to the provisions of the debt, the Holding Company is required to first satisfy the interest obligation on the debt, which approximates $5.1 million annually, prior to the authorization and payment of common stock cash dividends. Management of the Holding Company does not believe that this requirement will materially affect its ability to pay dividends to its common shareholders. During the three months ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company purchased 209,332 shares of its common stock into treasury. These repurchases were made under the Companys Eleventh Stock Repurchase Program, which was publicly announced on December 15, 2005. A summary of the shares repurchased by month is as follows: Period Total Number Shares Purchased AveragePrice Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of a Publicly Announced Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Programs October 2006 57,500 $14.40 57,500 1,838,442 November 2006 76,332 14.12 76,332 1,762,110 December 2006 75,500 14.19 75,500 1,686,610 Performance Graph Pursuant to the regulations of the SEC, the graph below compares the Companys stock performance with that of the total return for the U.S. Nasdaq Stock Market and an index of all thrift stocks as reported by SNL Securities L.C. from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2006. The graph assumes the reinvestment of dividends in additional shares of the same class of equity securities as those listed below. F 33 Period Ending Index 12/31/01 12/31/02 12/31/03 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. 100.00 104.46 172.26 155.30 131.35 130.95 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 68.76 103.67 113.16 115.57 127.58 SNL Thrift Index 100.00 119.29 168.88 188.16 194.80 227.07 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Financial Highlights (Dollars in Thousands, except per share data) The consolidated financial and other data of the Company as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, set forth below is derived in part from, and should be read in conjunction with, the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The consolidated financial and other data for the year ended December 31, 2002 is unaudited. Amounts as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 have been reclassified to conform to the December 31, 2006 presentation. At or for the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Selected Financial Condition Data: Total assets $3,173,377 $3,126,226 $3,377,266 $2,971,661 $2,946,374 Loans and loans held for sale (net of deferred costs or fees and the allowance for loans losses) 2,688,159 2,596,310 2,486,262 2,177,622 2,154,619 MBS 154,437 193,453 519,885 462,737 362,952 Investment securities (including FHLBNY capital stock) 61,078 74,750 80,750 64,517 140,279 Federal funds sold and other short term investments 78,752 60,014 103,291 95,286 114,291 Goodwill 55,638 55,638 55,638 55,638 55,638 Deposits 2,008,532 1,914,772 2,210,049 2,041,678 1,927,175 Borrowings 788,900 834,120 809,249 571,675 675,541 Stockholders equity 290,631 291,713 281,721 283,919 265,737 Tangible Stockholders equity 241,829 239,169 229,013 228,026 206,325 Selected Operating Data: Interest income $170,810 $169,712 $173,758 $184,849 $189,621 Interest expense on deposits and borrowings 93,340 77,341 67,776 71,063 91,790 Net interest income 77,470 92,371 105,982 113,786 97,831 Provision for losses 240 340 280 288 240 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 77,230 92,031 105,702 113,498 97,591 Non interest income 12,390 5,151 10,376 9,388 12,292 Non interest expense 41,976 40,742 42,407 40,809 38,696 Income before income tax 47,644 56,440 73,671 82,077 71,187 Income tax expense 17,052 20,230 27,449 30,801 26,565 Net income $30,592 $36,210 $46,222 $51,276 $44,622 F 34 At or for the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 SELECTED FINANCIAL RATIOS AND OTHER DATA (1): Return on average assets 0.98% 1.11% 1.38% 1.67% 1.57% Return on average stockholders equity 10.43 12.65 16.76 18.76 17.65 Stockholders equity to total assets at end of period 9.16 9.33 8.34 9.55 9.02 Tangible equity to tangible assets at end of period 7.74 7.78 6.88 7.82 7.15 Loans to deposits at end of period 134.61 136.42 113.20 107.39 112.60 Loans to interest earning assets at end of period 90.18 88.82 78.04 77.89 77.85 Net interest spread (2) 2.19 2.66 3.09 3.62 3.22 Net interest margin (3) 2.60 2.96 3.32 3.90 3.61 Average interest earning assets to average interest bearing liabilities 113.07 111.88 110.79 111.60 111.64 Non interest expense to average assets 1.34 1.24 1.27 1.33 1.36 Core non interest expense to average assets (4) 1.34 1.24 1.24 1.30 1.28 Efficiency ratio (4) 48.36 40.03 36.67 33.05 36.49 Core efficiency ratio (4) (5) 48.36 39.98 35.96 32.38 34.44 Effective tax rate 35.79 35.84 37.26 37.53 37.32 Dividend payout ratio 64.37 54.90 42.97 30.10 25.00 Per Share Data: Diluted earnings per share $0.87 $1.02 $1.28 $1.37 $1.17 Cash dividends paid per share 0.56 0.56 0.55 0.41 0.29 Book value per share 7.97 7.89 7.58 7.45 6.91 Tangible book value per share 6.63 6.47 6.16 5.98 5.36 Asset Quality Ratios and Other Data: Net charge offs $27 $45 $133 $29 $274 Total non performing loans 3,606 958 1,459 525 2,116 OREO, net 134 Non performing loans to total loans 0.13% 0.04% 0.06% 0.02% 0.10% Non performing loans and OREO to total assets 0.11 0.03 0.04 0.02 0.08 Allowance for Loan Losses to: Non performing loans 430.23% 1,647.70% 1,065.32% 2,860.57% 730.53% Total loans (6) 0.57 0.60 0.62 0.68 0.71 Regulatory Capital Ratios: (Bank only) Tangible capital 9.05% 9.84% 7.88% 7.97% 7.19% Leverage capital 9.05 9.84 7.88 7.97 7.19 Total risk based capital 12.61 14.30 12.83 15.03 13.17 Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios (7): Including interest on deposits 1.51x 1.73x 2.09x 2.15x 1.78x Excluding interest on deposits 2.30 2.56 3.46 3.50 2.49 Full Service Branches 21 20 20 20 20 (1) With the exception of end of period ratios, all ratios are based on average daily balances during the indicated periods. Asset Quality Ratios and Regulatory Capital Ratios are end of period ratios. (2) The net interest spread represents the difference between the weighted average yield on interest earning assets and the weighted average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets. (4) In calculating these ratios, amortization expense related to the core deposit intangible is excluded from non interest expense. (5) The efficiency ratio represents non interest expense as a percentage of the sum of net interest income and non interest income, excluding any gains or losses on sales of assets. (6) Total loans represents loans, net, plus the allowance for loan losses. (7) For purposes of computing the ratios of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represent income before taxes, extraordinary items and the cumulative effect of accounting changes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges represent total interest expense, including and excluding interest on deposits. F 35 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Summary The Holding Companys primary business is the operation of the Bank. The Companys consolidated results of operations are dependent primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank additionally generates non interest income such as service charges and other fees, as well as income associated with Bank Owned Life Insurance. Non interest expense primarily consists of employee compensation and benefits, federal deposit insurance premiums, data processing costs, occupancy and equipment expenses, marketing expenses and other operating expenses. The Companys consolidated results of operations are also significantly affected by general economic and competitive conditions (particularly fluctuations in market interest rates), government policies, changes in accounting standards and actions of regulatory agencies. The Banks primary strategy is generally to increase its household and deposit market shares in the communities which it serves. During the last nine operating quarters, however, growth has been restricted as a result of the interest rate environment, which management has deemed unfavorable for significant balance sheet growth. The Bank also generally seeks to increase its product and service utilization for each individual depositor. In addition, the Banks primary strategy includes the origination of, and investment in, mortgage loans, with an emphasis on multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. The Company believes that multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans provide advantages as investment assets. Initially, they offer a higher yield than investment securities of comparable maturities or terms to repricing. In addition, origination and processing costs for the Banks multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans are lower per thousand dollars of originations than comparable one to four family loan costs. Further, the Banks market area has generally provided a stable flow of new and refinanced multifamily residential and commercial real estate loan originations. In order to address the credit risk associated with multifamily residential and commercial real estate lending, the Bank has developed underwriting standards that it believes are reliable in order to maintain consistent credit quality for its loans. The Bank also strives to provide a stable source of liquidity and earnings through the purchase of investment grade securities; seeks to maintain the asset quality of its loans and other investments; and uses appropriate portfolio and asset/liability management techniques in an effort to manage the effects of interest rate volatility on its profitability and capital. The net interest spread and net interest margin declined during the year ended December 31, 2006. These declines were attributable to the continued low interest rate environment on loans coupled with increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2006. These conditions resulted in a greater increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the yield on interest earning assets during the year. Critical Accounting Policies Various elements of the Companys accounting policies are inherently subject to estimation techniques, valuation assumptions and other subjective assessments. The Companys policies with respect to the methodologies it uses to determine the allowance for loan losses, the valuation of MSR, asset impairments (including the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, realization of deferred tax assets and other than temporary declines in the valuation of securities), and loan income recognition are its most critical accounting policies because they are important to the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, involve a significant degree of complexity and require management to make difficult and subjective judgments which often necessitate assumptions or estimates about highly uncertain matters. The use of different judgments, assumptions and estimates could result in material variations in the Companys results of operations or financial condition. The following are descriptions of the Companys critical accounting policies and explanations of the methods and assumptions underlying their application. These policies and their application are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committees of the Holding Company and Bank. Allowance for Loan Losses. GAAP requires the Bank to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses. Management uses available information to estimate losses on loans and believes that the Bank maintains its allowance for loan losses at appropriate levels. Adjustments may be necessary, however, if future economic, market or other conditions differ from the current operating environment. Although the Bank believes it utilizes the most reliable information available, the level of the allowance for loan losses remains an estimate subject to significant judgment. These evaluations are inherently subjective because, although based upon objective data, it is managements interpretation of the data that determines the amount of the appropriate allowance. The Company, therefore, periodically reviews the actual performance and charge offs of its portfolio and compares them to the previously determined allowance coverage F 36 percentages. In so doing, the Company evaluates the impact that the variables discussed below may have on the portfolio to determine whether or not changes should be made to the assumptions and analyses. The Banks loan loss reserve methodology consists of several key components, including a review of the two elements of its loan portfolio: problem loans (i.e., classified loans, non performing loans, troubled debt restructuring and impaired loans under Amended SFAS 114) and performing loans. Performing Loans At December 31, 2006, the majority of the allowance for loan losses was allocated to performing loans, which represented the overwhelming majority of the Banks loan portfolio. Performing loans are reviewed at least quarterly based upon the premise that there are losses inherent within the loan portfolio that have not been identified as of the review date. The Bank thus calculates an allowance for loan losses related to its performing loans by deriving an expected loan loss percentage and applying it to its performing loans. In deriving the expected loan loss percentage, the Bank generally considers, among others, the following criteria: the Banks historical loss experience; the age and payment history of the loans (commonly referred to as their "seasoned quality"); the type of loan (i.e., one to four family, multifamily residential, commercial real estate, cooperative apartment, construction or consumer); the underwriting history of the loan (i.e., whether it was underwritten by the Bank or a predecessor institution acquired by the Bank and, therefore, originally subjected to different underwriting criteria); both the current condition and recent history of the overall local real estate market (in order to determine the accuracy of utilizing recent historical charge off data to derive the expected loan loss percentages); the level of, and trend in, non performing loans; the level and composition of new loan activity; and the existence of geographic loan concentrations (as the overwhelming majority of the Banks loans are secured by real estate located in the NYC metropolitan area) or specific industry conditions within the portfolio segments. Since these criteria affect the expected loan loss percentages that are applied to performing loans, changes in any of them may affect the amount of the allowance and the provision for loan losses. The Bank applied the process of determining the allowance for loan losses consistently throughout the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Problem Loans OTS regulations and Bank policy require that loans possessing certain weaknesses be classified as Substandard, Doubtful or Loss assets. Assets that do not expose the Bank to risk sufficient to justify classification in one of these categories, however, which possess potential weaknesses that deserve managements attention, are designated Special Mention. Loans classified as Special Mention, Substandard or Doubtful are reviewed individually on a quarterly basis by the Banks Loan Loss Reserve Committee to determine the level of possible loss, if any, that should be provided for within the Banks allowance for loan losses. The Banks policy is to charge off immediately all balances classified as Loss and record a reduction of the allowance for loan losses for the full amount of the outstanding loan balance. The Bank applied this process consistently throughout the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Under the guidance established by Amended SFAS 114, loans determined to be impaired (generally, non performing one to four family loans in excess of $417,000 and non performing and troubled debt restructured multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans) are evaluated at least quarterly in order to establish whether the estimated value of the underlying collateral determined based upon an independent appraisal is sufficient to satisfy the existing debt. For each loan that the Bank determines to be impaired, impairment is measured by the amount that the carrying balance of the loan, including all accrued interest, exceeds the estimated fair value of the collateral. A specific reserve is established on all impaired loans to the extent of impairment and comprises a portion of the allowance for loan losses. The Loan Loss Reserve Committees determination of the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral is subject to assumptions and judgments made by the committee. A specific valuation allowance could differ materially as a result of changes in these assumptions and judgments. Valuation of MSR. The estimated origination and servicing costs of mortgage loans sold with servicing rights retained by the Bank are allocated between the loans and the servicing rights based on their estimated fair values at the time of the loan sale. MSR are carried at the lower of cost or fair value and are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, net servicing income. The estimated fair value of MSR is determined by calculating the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows, using prepayment, default, servicing cost and discount rate assumptions that the Company believes market participants would use for similar assets. All estimates and assumptions utilized in the valuation of MSR are derived based upon actual historical results for either the Bank or its industry peers. The fair value of MSR is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Fluctuations in prepayment speed assumptions have the most significant impact on the estimated fair value of MSR. In the event that loan prepayment activities exceed the assumed amount due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of MSR would likely decline. In the event that loan prepayment F 37 activities fall below the assumed amount due to a decline in loan refinancing, the fair value of MSR would likely increase. Any measurement of the value of MSR is limited by the existing conditions and assumptions utilized at a particular point in time, and would not necessarily be appropriate if applied at a different point in time. In measuring the fair value of capitalized MSR, assumptions utilized additionally include the stratification based on predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans for the purpose of evaluating impairment. Increases in the risk characteristics of the underlying loans from the assumed amounts would result in a decline in the fair value of the MSR. A valuation allowance is established in the event the recorded value of an individual stratum exceeds its fair value, for the full amount of the shortfall in the fair value. Asset Impairment Adjustments. Certain assets are carried in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value or at the lower of cost or fair value. Management periodically performs analyses to test for impairment of these assets. Two significant impairment analyses relate to the value of goodwill and other than temporary declines in the value of the Companys securities. In the event that an impairment of goodwill or an other than temporary decline in securities is determined to exist, it is recognized as a charge to earnings. Goodwill is accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), which was adopted on July 1, 2001. SFAS 142 eliminated amortization of goodwill and instead requires performance of an annual impairment test at the reporting unit level. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had goodwill totaling $55.6 million. The Company identified a single reporting unit for purposes of its goodwill impairment testing. The impairment test is therefore performed on a consolidated basis and compares the Holding Companys market capitalization (reporting unit fair value) to its outstanding equity (reporting unit carrying value). The Holding Company utilizes its closing stock price as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on the date of the impairment test in order to compute market capitalization. The Company has designated the last day of its fiscal year as the annual date for impairment testing. The Company performed its annual impairment test as of December 31, 2006 and concluded that no potential impairment of goodwill existed since the fair value of the Companys reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. No events occurred, nor circumstances changed, subsequent to December 31, 2006 that would reduce the fair value of the Companys reporting unit below its carrying value. Such events or changes in circumstances would require an immediate impairment test to be performed in accordance with SFAS 142. Differences in the identification of reporting units or the use of valuation techniques can result in materially different evaluations of impairment. Available for sale debt and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values are carried at fair value. Estimated fair values for securities are based on published or securities dealers market values. Debt securities are classified as held to maturity, and carried at amortized cost, only if the Company has a positive intent and ability to hold them to maturity. Debt securities that are not classified as held to maturity, along with all equity securities, are classified as either securities available for sale or trading securities. Unrealized holding gains or losses on debt and equity securities available for sale are excluded from net income and reported net of income taxes as other comprehensive income or loss. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any securities classified as trading securities during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, nor do they presently anticipate establishing a trading portfolio. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of its securities portfolio, taking into account the severity and duration of each unrealized loss as well as managements intent with regard to the securities, in order to determine if a decline in market value of any security below its carrying value is other than temporary. If such decline is deemed other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is adjusted through a charge recorded in the Companys statement of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were no other than temporary impairments in the securities portfolio. Loan Income Recognition. Interest income on loans is recorded using the level yield method. Loan origination fees and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the contractual loan terms. Accrual of interest is discontinued when its receipt is in doubt, which typically occurs when a loan becomes 90 days past due as to principal or interest. Any interest accrued to income in the year when interest accruals are discontinued is reversed. Payments on nonaccrual loans are generally applied to principal. Loans are returned to accrual status once the doubt concerning collectibility has been removed and the borrower has demonstrated performance in accordance with the loan terms and conditions for a minimum of twelve months. F 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources The Banks primary sources of funding for its lending and investment activities include deposits, loan and MBS payments, investment security maturities and redemptions, advances from the FHLBNY, and REPOs entered into with various financial institutions, including the FHLBNY. The Bank also sells selected multifamily residential and mixed use loans to the FNMA, and long term, one to four family residential real estate loans to either FNMA or SONYMA. The Company may additionally issue debt under appropriate circumstances. Although maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and investments are predictable sources of funds, deposits flows and prepayments on mortgage loans and MBS are influenced by interest rates, economic conditions and competition. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. It must additionally compete for deposit monies against the stock and bond markets, especially during periods of strong performance in those arenas. The Banks deposit flows are affected primarily by the pricing and marketing of its deposit products compared to its competitors, as well as the market performance of depositor investment alternatives such as the U.S. bond or equity markets. To the extent that the Bank is responsive to general market increases or declines in interest rates, its deposit flows should not be materially impacted. However, favorable performance of the equity or bond markets could adversely impact the Banks deposit flows. Deposits increased $93.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to a decrease of $295.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company experienced an increase of $86.1 million in CDs and $49.6 in money market accounts, due primarily to successful promotional campaigns. During the year ended December 31, 2005, while short term interest rates were steadily increasing, the Bank, primarily in order to control its overall cost of deposits, elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on its various deposit accounts at or near their existing levels. As a result, the attrition level on deposits increased during that time period (particularly in promotional money market accounts with expiring promotional offering rates) and exceeded the level of new deposits gathered through ongoing promotional programs. As a result, money market deposits declined $284.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. During 2005, the Banks rates on repricing core deposits lagged those of the price leaders in its markets. This strategy served to protect margin, not deposits. Commencing in the first quarter of 2006, there was a slight shift in the Banks deposit pricing posture for competitive reasons. With the average rate on new loans currently generally trending above six percent, attracting and retaining new deposits became more palatable to managing the Banks interest rate risk during 2006 than it was throughout 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, principal repayments totaled $326.8 million on real estate loans and $39.4 million on MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2005, principal repayments totaled $358.5 million on real estate loans and $89.1 million on MBS. The decrease in principal repayments on loans and MBS resulted from a reduction in borrower refinance activities associated with mortgage related assets as a result of increases in interest rates during the period July 2005 through September 2006. The decrease in principal repayments on MBS additionally reflected a reduction in their balance due to the sale of securities in May 2005. Since December 2002, the Bank has originated and sold multifamily residential mortgage loans in the secondary market to FNMA while retaining servicing and generating fee income while it services the loans. The Bank underwrites these loans using its customary underwriting standards, funds the loans, and sells them to FNMA at agreed upon pricing. Typically, the Bank seeks to sell loans with terms to maturity or repricing in excess of seven years from the origination date since it does not desire to retain such loans in portfolio as a result of the heightened interest rate risk they possess. Under the terms of the sales program, the Bank retains a portion of the associated credit risk. Once established, such amount continues to increase as long as the Bank continues to sell loans to FNMA under the program. The Bank retains this exposure until the portfolio of loans sold to FNMA is satisfied in its entirety or the Bank funds claims by FNMA for the maximum loss exposure. During the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Bank sold FNMA $145.4 million and $106.7 million of loans, respectively, pursuant to this program. In order to both replace liquidity lost by the attrition of deposits during 2005 and reduce the overall level of interest rate risk associated with its assets, the Company sold $274.2 million of investment securities and MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005, recognizing a net pre tax loss of $5.2 million on the sale. The cash proceeds of the sale were initially reinvested in overnight funds and other short term (90 day or less) investments with an average yield approximating 3.5%. The securities sold had an average yield of 3.62% and an average estimated duration of 2.4 years upon their disposition. Due in part to the growth in deposit funding during the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company was able to reduce its overall level of borrowings, which, because the interest rates associated with borrowings generally exceed those paid on deposits, helped minimize the increase in the average cost of its interest bearing liabilities while short term interest rates continued to rise. During the year ended December 31, 2006, borrowings declined by $45.2 million on a net basis, as the Company utilized deposit inflows and liquidity F 39 from its investment and MBS portfolios to fund loan growth. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Bank limited asset growth, and, as a result, undertook no new REPO borrowings or FHLBNY advances during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company engaged in two separate borrowing restructuring transactions. In the initial transaction, the Company restructured $145.0 million of its borrowings in order to lower their average cost. Borrowings with a weighted average cost of 4.46% and a weighted average term to maturity of one year were replaced with borrowings having a weighted average cost of 4.17% and a final maturity of ten years, callable after year one. Since portions of the original borrowings were satisfied at a discount, the Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $43,200 in interest expense related to the prepayment. In the second transaction, the Company restructured $170.0 million of wholesale borrowings. Under this restructuring, $120.0 million of REPOs and $50.0 million in FHLBNY advances were prepaid and replaced. The prepaid borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 4.53%, and were replaced with a combination of REPOs and FHLBNY advances having an initial weighted average interest rate of 3.79%. The replacement FHLBNY advances have a 4.4% fixed rate of interest, a final maturity of ten years and are callable by the FHLBNY after a Lockout Period of one, two or three years. The replacement REPOs have a ten year maturity and a Lockout Period of either one or two years. During the Lockout Period, the REPOs are variable rate (indexed to 3 month LIBOR), and have embedded interest rate caps and floors that ensure their reset interest rate will not exceed their initial interest rate. After the Lockout Period, if not called by the lender, the REPOs convert to an average fixed rate of 4.90%. The Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $764,000 in interest expense related to the prepayment. In the event that the Bank should require funds beyond its ability to generate them internally, an additional source of funds is available through use of its borrowing line at the FHLBNY. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had an additional potential borrowing capacity of $389.4 million available provided it owned the minimum required level of FHLBNY common stock (i.e., 4.5% of its outstanding FHLBNY borrowings). The Bank is subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements imposed by the OTS, which, as a general matter, are based on the amount and composition of an institutions assets. At December 31, 2006, the Bank was in compliance with all applicable regulatory capital requirements and was considered "well capitalized" for all regulatory purposes. The Bank uses its liquidity and capital resources primarily for the origination of real estate loans and the purchase of mortgage backed and other securities. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, real estate loan originations totaled $563.2 million and $574.2 million, respectively. Purchases of investment securities (excluding short term investments and federal funds sold) and MBS totaled $4.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $53.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline resulted from reduced levels of liquidity experienced during the period July 2005 through September 2006 (as a result of deposit outflows), that limited the funds available for investment purchases. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company repurchased 777,539 shares of its common stock into treasury. All shares repurchased were recorded at the acquisition cost, which totaled $11.0 million during the period. As of December 31, 2006, up to 1,686,610 shares remained available for purchase under authorized share purchase programs. Based upon the $14.01 per share closing price of its common stock as of December 31, 2006, the Holding Company would utilize $23.6 million in order to purchase all of the remaining authorized shares. For the Holding Company to complete these share purchases, it would likely require dividend distributions from the Bank. Contractual Obligations The Bank has outstanding at any time, a significant number of borrowings in the form of FHLBNY advances or REPOS. The Holding Company also has an outstanding $25.0 million non callable subordinated note payable due to mature in 2010, and $72.2 million of trust preferred borrowings from third parties due to mature in April 2034, which is callable at any time after April 2009. F 40 The Bank is obligated under leases for certain rental payments due on its branches and equipment. A summary of borrowings and lease obligations at December 31, 2006 is as follows: Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Less than One Year One Year to Three Years Over Three Years to Five Years Over Five Years Total at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands) CDs $961,009 $85,435 $18,225 $ $1,064,669 Weighted average interest rate of CDs (1) 4.73% 3.77% 3.96% % 4.64% Borrowings $210,000 $90,235 $66,000 $422,665 $788,900 Weighted average interest rate of borrowings 4.40% 5.34% 4.24% 4.66% 4.63% Operating lease obligations $1,141 $1,945 $1,650 $3,895 $8,631 Minimum data processing system obligation $752 $1,505 $1,003 $3,260 (1) The weighted average cost of CDs, inclusive of their contractual compounding of interest, was 4.76% at December 31, 2006. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Bank implemented a program in December 2002 to originate and sell multifamily residential mortgage loans in the secondary market to FNMA while retaining servicing. The Bank is required to retain a recourse obligation on all loans sold under this program, which will remain in effect until either the entire portfolio of loans sold to FNMA is satisfied or the Bank funds claims by FNMA for the full balance of the recourse obligation. In addition, as part of its loan origination business, the Bank has outstanding commitments to extend credit to third parties, which are subject to strict credit control assessments. Since many of these loan commitments expire prior to funding, in whole or in part, the contract amounts are not estimates of future cash flows. Less than One Year One Year to Three Years Over Three Years to Five Years Over Five Years Total at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Credit Commitments: Available lines of credit $71,595 $ $ $ $71,595 Other loan commitments 55,321 55,321 Recourse obligation on loans sold to FNMA 18,495 18,495 Total Credit Commitments $145,411 $ $ $ $145,411 Analysis of Net Interest Income The Companys profitability, like that of most banking institutions, is dependent primarily upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest earnings assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or borrowings. Net interest income depends on the relative amounts of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them. The following tables set forth certain information relating to the Companys consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and reflect the average yield on interest earning assets and average cost of interest bearing liabilities for the periods indicated. Such yields and costs are derived by dividing interest income or expense by the average balance of interest earning assets or interest bearing liabilities, respectively, for the periods indicated. Average balances are derived from daily balances. The yields and costs include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. All material changes in average balances and interest income or expense are discussed in the comparison of operating results commencing on page F 44. F 41 For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in Thousands) Average Average Average Average Yield/ Average Yield/ Average Yield/ Balance Interest Cost Balance Interest Cost Balance Interest Cost Assets: Interest earning assets: Real estate loans (1) $2,649,623 $155,510 5.87% $2,533,205 $148,442 5.86% $2,393,862 $148,844 6.22% Other loans 1,978 190 9.61 2,369 214 9.03 3,325 248 7.46 Investment securities (2) 32,609 2,276 6.98 68,315 2,602 3.81 47,384 1,745 3.68 MBS 177,490 6,850 3.86 324,002 11,699 3.61 618,471 21,091 3.41 Other 116,447 5,984 5.14 197,891 6,755 3.41 129,570 1,830 1.41 Total interest earning assets 2,978,147 170,810 5.74% 3,125,782 169,712 5.43% 3,192,612 $173,758 5.44% Non interest earning assets 148,493 150,765 159,580 Total assets $3,126,640 $3,276,547 $3,352,192 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity: Interest bearing liabilities: NOW, Super Now accounts $35,475 $361 1.02% $40,625 $408 1.00% $41,535 $410 0.99% Money Market accounts 463,885 12,038 2.60 611,673 9,773 1.60 806,582 11,745 1.46 Savings accounts 317,572 1,866 0.59 351,827 1,943 0.55 367,746 1,938 0.53 CDs 1,019,562 42,394 4.16 982,030 28,934 2.95 939,682 23,780 2.53 Borrowed Funds 797,318 36,681 4.60 807,800 36,283 4.49 726,083 29,903 4.12 Total interest bearing liabilities 2,633,812 93,340 3.54% 2,793,955 $77,341 2.77% 2,881,628 $67,776 2.35% Checking accounts 95,067 94,541 93,845 Other non interest bearing liabilities 104,562 101,889 100,926 Total liabilities 2,833,441 2,990,385 3,076,399 Stockholders equity 293,199 286,162 275,793 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $3,126,640 $3,276,547 $3,352,192 Net interest spread (3) 2.19% 2.66% 3.09% Net interest income/ interest margin (4) $77,470 2.60% $92,371 2.96% $105,982 3.22% Net interest earning assets $344,335 $331,827 $310,984 Ratio of interest earning assets to interest bearing liabilities 113.07% 111.88% 110.79% (1) In computing the average balance of real estate loans, non performing loans have been included. Interest income includes loan fees as defined under SFAS 91, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leasesan amendment of FASB Statements No. 13, 60, and 65 and a rescission of FASB Statement No. 17." Interest income also includes applicable prepayment fees and late charges under SFAS 91. (2) Includes interest bearing deposits in other banks. (3) Net interest spread represents the difference between the average yield on interest earning assets and the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (4) The interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets. F 42 Rate/Volume Analysis. The following table represents the extent to which variations in interest rates and the volume of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities have affected interest income and interest expense during the periods indicated. Information is provided in each category with respect to: (i) variances attributable to fluctuations in volume (change in volume multiplied by prior rate), (ii) variances attributable to rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume), and (iii) the net change. Variances attributable to the combined impact of volume and rate have been allocated proportionately to the changes due to volume and the changes due to rate. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Interest earning assets: (Dollars in Thousands) Real Estate Loans $6,818 $250 $7,068 $8,440 $(8,842) $(402) $13,830 $(26,399) $(12,569) Other loans (37) 13 (24) (79) 45 (34) (22) (28) (50) Investment securities (1,927) 1,601 (326) 783 74 857 (525) (91) (616) MBS (5,475) 626 (4,849) (10,336) 944 (9,392) 3,683 (576) 3,107 Other (3,487) 2,716 (771) 1,650 3,275 4,925 (313) (650) (963) Total $(4,108) $5,206 $1,098 $458 $(4,504) $(4,046) $16,653 $(27,744) $(11,091) Interest bearing liabilities: NOW and Super Now accounts $(54) $7 ($47) $(8) $6 $(2) $86 $(20) $66 Money market accounts (3,107) 5,372 2,265 (2,970) 998 (1,972) 1,857 (852) 1,005 Savings accounts (204) 127 (77) (77) 82 5 (15) (452) (467) CDs 1,342 12,118 13,460 1,140 4,014 5,154 1,784 (2,736) (952) Borrowed funds (481) 879 398 3,529 2,851 6,380 3,167 (6,106) (2,939) Total (2,504) 18,503 15,999 1,614 7,951 9,565 6,879 (10,166) (3,287) Net change in net interest income $(1,604) $(13,297) $(14,901) $(1,156) $(12,455) $(13,611) $9,774 $(17,578) $(7,804) Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 Assets. Assets totaled $3.17 billion at December 31, 2006, a slight increase from total assets of $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005. Real estate loans increased $91.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due primarily to originations of $563.2 million during the period (as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity), that were partially offset by amortization of $326.8 million and sales to FNMA of $145.4 million. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, real estate loan originations totaled $563.2 million and $574.2 million, respectively. The average rate on total loan originations during the year ended December 31, 2006 was 6.43%, compared to 5.77% in the year ended December 31, 2005. Real estate loan prepayment and amortization during the year ended December 31, 2006 approximated 12% of the loan portfolio on an annualized basis, compared to 14% during the year ended December 2005. The decline in prepayment and amortization levels resulted from increases in interest rates from January 2006 to December 2006. Federal funds sold and other short term assets increased $18.7 million during the comparative period as cash flows from maturing investment securities and principal repayments on MBS were reinvested in short term securities and federal funds sold, since the flattened yield curve provided benefits to retaining the funds in short term investments. Partially offsetting the increases in real estate loans and federal funds sold and other short term assets were declines in MBS available for sale and investment securities available for sale of $39.0 million and $15.3 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in MBS available for sale resulted primarily from principal repayments of $39.4 million. The decrease in investment securities available for sale resulted primarily from maturities of $17.1 million. In addition, cash and due from banks declined $13.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 as excess liquidity that was maintained in cash and due from banks at December 31, 2005 was utilized for operations during the year ended December 31, 2006. Liabilities. Total liabilities increased $48.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. Deposits increased $93.8 million during the period (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Partially offsetting this increase was a net decline in borrowings (REPOS and FHLBNY advances) of $45.2 million. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of borrowing activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity declined $1.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due to cash dividends of $19.7 million and treasury stock repurchases of $11.0 million during the period. Additionally, accumulated other comprehensive loss (which is recorded as a negative balance within stockholders equity) increased by $3.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. The change in accumulated comprehensive loss resulted primarily from a charge of $3.8 million caused by the adoption of SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"). The increase of $3.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss caused a corresponding decrease in stockholders equity during the period. F 43 Partially offsetting the decrease to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2006 were net income of $30.6 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $910,000, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. and Certain Affiliates ("ESOP") and The Recognition and Retention Plan for Outside Directors, Officers and Employees of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("RRP") stock benefit plans. The ESOP and RRP possess investments in the Holding Companys common stock that are recorded as reductions in stockholders equity ("Contra Equity Balances"). As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced in a corresponding amount, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 Assets. Assets totaled $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005, a decrease of $251.0 million from total assets of $3.38 billion at December 31, 2004. The decline in assets was experienced primarily in MBS available for sale, which decreased $326.0 million during the period, principally as a result of the sale of $236.9 million of MBS available for sale (see "Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources") and MBS principal payments received totaling $89.0 million. In addition, federal funds sold and other short term investments declined $43.3 million, as the Bank utilized a portion of these short term assets in order to provide operational liquidity while deposit funding was declining. Partially offsetting the decline in MBS and federal funds sold and other short term investments during the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $115.0 million in real estate loans. The increase was attributable to originations of $574.2 million during the period, as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity, that were partially offset by amortization of $358.3 million and sales to FNMA of $108.2 million. Liabilities. Total liabilities decreased $261.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Deposits declined $295.3 million during the period, which was partially offset by an increase of $25.0 million in FHLBNY Advances. (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity increased $10.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due to net income of $36.2 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, tax benefits on stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the ESOP and the RRP stock benefit plans. As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Offsetting the increase to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2005 were cash dividends of $19.9 million and treasury stock repurchases of $12.2 million during the period, along with an increase in other comprehensive loss of $100,000 resulting primarily from the addition of a minimum pension liability of $276,000 during the period. Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 General. Net income was $30.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $5.6 million from net income of $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net interest income decreased $14.9 million, non interest income increased $7.2 million and non interest expense increased $1.2 million, resulting in a decline in pre tax net income of $8.8 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million as a result of the decline in pre tax net income. Net Interest Income. The discussion of net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 presented below should be read in conjunction with the tables on pages F 42 and F 43, which set forth certain information related to the consolidated statements of operations for those periods, and which also present the average yield on assets and average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. The yields and costs were derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of their related assets or liabilities during the periods represented. Average balances were derived from average daily balances. The yields include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. F 44 Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased $14.9 million to $77.5 million, from $92.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was attributable to an increase of $16.0 million in interest expense that was slightly offset by an increase of $1.1 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 47 basis points, from 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 2.19% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 2.96% to 2.60% during the same period. The tightening of monetary policy by the FOMC from the second half of 2004 through June 30, 2006, in combination with various market factors suppressing increases in both general long term interest rates and interest rates offered on real estate loans within the Banks lending market, resulted in a narrowing spread between short and long term interest rates, which negatively impacted net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 77 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. The increase resulted primarily from the following: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, became a larger percentage of the Banks total interest bearing liabilities as a result of runoff in average deposit balances during 2006, and (ii) the average cost of money market deposits and CDs increased by 100 basis points and 121 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2006. (See "Interest Expense" below). Partially offsetting the increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities was an increase of 31 basis points in the average yield on interest earning assets during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average balance of real estate loans (the Banks highest yielding interest earning asset) as a percentage of total interest earning assets, which was coupled with an increase in the average yields on real estate loans and MBS of 1 basis point and 25 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period. The increase in the composition of real estate loans as a percentage of interest earning assets resulted from both loan origination activity during 2006 coupled with a reduction in the level of investment securities and MBS during the same period, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and MBS were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. The increase in average yield on real estate loans reflected ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates during 2006. The increase in average yield on MBS reflected ongoing increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006. Interest Income. Interest income was $170.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.1 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income on real estate loans increased $7.1 million and was partially offset by decreases in interest income on MBS, investment securities and other short term investments of $4.8 million, $326,000 and $771,000, respectively, during the period. The increase in interest income on real estate loans resulted primarily from growth in their average balance of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth reflected real estate loan originations of $563.2 during 2006, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The one basis point increase in average yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates from October 2005 through June 2006, which resulted in an increase in the average origination rate on real estate loans from 5.77% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 6.43% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from a decreased average balance of $146.5 million (resulting primarily from the sale of $236.9 million of MBS in May 2005 and principal repayments on MBS of $39.4 million during 2006), that was partially offset by an increase of 25 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 (resulting from increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006). The decline in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments reflected declines in their average balances of $35.7 million and $81.4 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and other short term investments were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $16.0 million, to $93.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2006, from $77.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth resulted primarily from increased interest expense of $13.5 million related to CDs and $2.3 million related to money market accounts. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from an increase in their average cost of 121 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during 2006, as most of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2005 matured F 45 during this timeframe. In addition, the average balance of CDs increased $37.5 million during the period, reflecting successful gathering of new CDs from promotional activities during 2006. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Summary The Holding Companys primary business is the operation of the Bank. The Companys consolidated results of operations are dependent primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank additionally generates non interest income such as service charges and other fees, as well as income associated with Bank Owned Life Insurance. Non interest expense primarily consists of employee compensation and benefits, federal deposit insurance premiums, data processing costs, occupancy and equipment expenses, marketing expenses and other operating expenses. The Companys consolidated results of operations are also significantly affected by general economic and competitive conditions (particularly fluctuations in market interest rates), government policies, changes in accounting standards and actions of regulatory agencies. The Banks primary strategy is generally to increase its household and deposit market shares in the communities which it serves. During the last nine operating quarters, however, growth has been restricted as a result of the interest rate environment, which management has deemed unfavorable for significant balance sheet growth. The Bank also generally seeks to increase its product and service utilization for each individual depositor. In addition, the Banks primary strategy includes the origination of, and investment in, mortgage loans, with an emphasis on multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. The Company believes that multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans provide advantages as investment assets. Initially, they offer a higher yield than investment securities of comparable maturities or terms to repricing. In addition, origination and processing costs for the Banks multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans are lower per thousand dollars of originations than comparable one to four family loan costs. Further, the Banks market area has generally provided a stable flow of new and refinanced multifamily residential and commercial real estate loan originations. In order to address the credit risk associated with multifamily residential and commercial real estate lending, the Bank has developed underwriting standards that it believes are reliable in order to maintain consistent credit quality for its loans. The Bank also strives to provide a stable source of liquidity and earnings through the purchase of investment grade securities; seeks to maintain the asset quality of its loans and other investments; and uses appropriate portfolio and asset/liability management techniques in an effort to manage the effects of interest rate volatility on its profitability and capital. The net interest spread and net interest margin declined during the year ended December 31, 2006. These declines were attributable to the continued low interest rate environment on loans coupled with increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2006. These conditions resulted in a greater increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the yield on interest earning assets during the year. Critical Accounting Policies Various elements of the Companys accounting policies are inherently subject to estimation techniques, valuation assumptions and other subjective assessments. The Companys policies with respect to the methodologies it uses to determine the allowance for loan losses, the valuation of MSR, asset impairments (including the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, realization of deferred tax assets and other than temporary declines in the valuation of securities), and loan income recognition are its most critical accounting policies because they are important to the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, involve a significant degree of complexity and require management to make difficult and subjective judgments which often necessitate assumptions or estimates about highly uncertain matters. The use of different judgments, assumptions and estimates could result in material variations in the Companys results of operations or financial condition. The following are descriptions of the Companys critical accounting policies and explanations of the methods and assumptions underlying their application. These policies and their application are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committees of the Holding Company and Bank. Allowance for Loan Losses. GAAP requires the Bank to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses. Management uses available information to estimate losses on loans and believes that the Bank maintains its allowance for loan losses at appropriate levels. Adjustments may be necessary, however, if future economic, market or other conditions differ from the current operating environment. Although the Bank believes it utilizes the most reliable information available, the level of the allowance for loan losses remains an estimate subject to significant judgment. These evaluations are inherently subjective because, although based upon objective data, it is managements interpretation of the data that determines the amount of the appropriate allowance. The Company, therefore, periodically reviews the actual performance and charge offs of its portfolio and compares them to the previously determined allowance coverage F 36 percentages. In so doing, the Company evaluates the impact that the variables discussed below may have on the portfolio to determine whether or not changes should be made to the assumptions and analyses. The Banks loan loss reserve methodology consists of several key components, including a review of the two elements of its loan portfolio: problem loans (i.e., classified loans, non performing loans, troubled debt restructuring and impaired loans under Amended SFAS 114) and performing loans. Performing Loans At December 31, 2006, the majority of the allowance for loan losses was allocated to performing loans, which represented the overwhelming majority of the Banks loan portfolio. Performing loans are reviewed at least quarterly based upon the premise that there are losses inherent within the loan portfolio that have not been identified as of the review date. The Bank thus calculates an allowance for loan losses related to its performing loans by deriving an expected loan loss percentage and applying it to its performing loans. In deriving the expected loan loss percentage, the Bank generally considers, among others, the following criteria: the Banks historical loss experience; the age and payment history of the loans (commonly referred to as their "seasoned quality"); the type of loan (i.e., one to four family, multifamily residential, commercial real estate, cooperative apartment, construction or consumer); the underwriting history of the loan (i.e., whether it was underwritten by the Bank or a predecessor institution acquired by the Bank and, therefore, originally subjected to different underwriting criteria); both the current condition and recent history of the overall local real estate market (in order to determine the accuracy of utilizing recent historical charge off data to derive the expected loan loss percentages); the level of, and trend in, non performing loans; the level and composition of new loan activity; and the existence of geographic loan concentrations (as the overwhelming majority of the Banks loans are secured by real estate located in the NYC metropolitan area) or specific industry conditions within the portfolio segments. Since these criteria affect the expected loan loss percentages that are applied to performing loans, changes in any of them may affect the amount of the allowance and the provision for loan losses. The Bank applied the process of determining the allowance for loan losses consistently throughout the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Problem Loans OTS regulations and Bank policy require that loans possessing certain weaknesses be classified as Substandard, Doubtful or Loss assets. Assets that do not expose the Bank to risk sufficient to justify classification in one of these categories, however, which possess potential weaknesses that deserve managements attention, are designated Special Mention. Loans classified as Special Mention, Substandard or Doubtful are reviewed individually on a quarterly basis by the Banks Loan Loss Reserve Committee to determine the level of possible loss, if any, that should be provided for within the Banks allowance for loan losses. The Banks policy is to charge off immediately all balances classified as Loss and record a reduction of the allowance for loan losses for the full amount of the outstanding loan balance. The Bank applied this process consistently throughout the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Under the guidance established by Amended SFAS 114, loans determined to be impaired (generally, non performing one to four family loans in excess of $417,000 and non performing and troubled debt restructured multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans) are evaluated at least quarterly in order to establish whether the estimated value of the underlying collateral determined based upon an independent appraisal is sufficient to satisfy the existing debt. For each loan that the Bank determines to be impaired, impairment is measured by the amount that the carrying balance of the loan, including all accrued interest, exceeds the estimated fair value of the collateral. A specific reserve is established on all impaired loans to the extent of impairment and comprises a portion of the allowance for loan losses. The Loan Loss Reserve Committees determination of the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral is subject to assumptions and judgments made by the committee. A specific valuation allowance could differ materially as a result of changes in these assumptions and judgments. Valuation of MSR. The estimated origination and servicing costs of mortgage loans sold with servicing rights retained by the Bank are allocated between the loans and the servicing rights based on their estimated fair values at the time of the loan sale. MSR are carried at the lower of cost or fair value and are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, net servicing income. The estimated fair value of MSR is determined by calculating the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows, using prepayment, default, servicing cost and discount rate assumptions that the Company believes market participants would use for similar assets. All estimates and assumptions utilized in the valuation of MSR are derived based upon actual historical results for either the Bank or its industry peers. The fair value of MSR is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Fluctuations in prepayment speed assumptions have the most significant impact on the estimated fair value of MSR. In the event that loan prepayment activities exceed the assumed amount due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of MSR would likely decline. In the event that loan prepayment F 37 activities fall below the assumed amount due to a decline in loan refinancing, the fair value of MSR would likely increase. Any measurement of the value of MSR is limited by the existing conditions and assumptions utilized at a particular point in time, and would not necessarily be appropriate if applied at a different point in time. In measuring the fair value of capitalized MSR, assumptions utilized additionally include the stratification based on predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans for the purpose of evaluating impairment. Increases in the risk characteristics of the underlying loans from the assumed amounts would result in a decline in the fair value of the MSR. A valuation allowance is established in the event the recorded value of an individual stratum exceeds its fair value, for the full amount of the shortfall in the fair value. Asset Impairment Adjustments. Certain assets are carried in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value or at the lower of cost or fair value. Management periodically performs analyses to test for impairment of these assets. Two significant impairment analyses relate to the value of goodwill and other than temporary declines in the value of the Companys securities. In the event that an impairment of goodwill or an other than temporary decline in securities is determined to exist, it is recognized as a charge to earnings. Goodwill is accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), which was adopted on July 1, 2001. SFAS 142 eliminated amortization of goodwill and instead requires performance of an annual impairment test at the reporting unit level. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had goodwill totaling $55.6 million. The Company identified a single reporting unit for purposes of its goodwill impairment testing. The impairment test is therefore performed on a consolidated basis and compares the Holding Companys market capitalization (reporting unit fair value) to its outstanding equity (reporting unit carrying value). The Holding Company utilizes its closing stock price as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on the date of the impairment test in order to compute market capitalization. The Company has designated the last day of its fiscal year as the annual date for impairment testing. The Company performed its annual impairment test as of December 31, 2006 and concluded that no potential impairment of goodwill existed since the fair value of the Companys reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. No events occurred, nor circumstances changed, subsequent to December 31, 2006 that would reduce the fair value of the Companys reporting unit below its carrying value. Such events or changes in circumstances would require an immediate impairment test to be performed in accordance with SFAS 142. Differences in the identification of reporting units or the use of valuation techniques can result in materially different evaluations of impairment. Available for sale debt and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values are carried at fair value. Estimated fair values for securities are based on published or securities dealers market values. Debt securities are classified as held to maturity, and carried at amortized cost, only if the Company has a positive intent and ability to hold them to maturity. Debt securities that are not classified as held to maturity, along with all equity securities, are classified as either securities available for sale or trading securities. Unrealized holding gains or losses on debt and equity securities available for sale are excluded from net income and reported net of income taxes as other comprehensive income or loss. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any securities classified as trading securities during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, nor do they presently anticipate establishing a trading portfolio. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of its securities portfolio, taking into account the severity and duration of each unrealized loss as well as managements intent with regard to the securities, in order to determine if a decline in market value of any security below its carrying value is other than temporary. If such decline is deemed other than temporary, the carrying amount of the security is adjusted through a charge recorded in the Companys statement of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were no other than temporary impairments in the securities portfolio. Loan Income Recognition. Interest income on loans is recorded using the level yield method. Loan origination fees and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the contractual loan terms. Accrual of interest is discontinued when its receipt is in doubt, which typically occurs when a loan becomes 90 days past due as to principal or interest. Any interest accrued to income in the year when interest accruals are discontinued is reversed. Payments on nonaccrual loans are generally applied to principal. Loans are returned to accrual status once the doubt concerning collectibility has been removed and the borrower has demonstrated performance in accordance with the loan terms and conditions for a minimum of twelve months. F 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources The Banks primary sources of funding for its lending and investment activities include deposits, loan and MBS payments, investment security maturities and redemptions, advances from the FHLBNY, and REPOs entered into with various financial institutions, including the FHLBNY. The Bank also sells selected multifamily residential and mixed use loans to the FNMA, and long term, one to four family residential real estate loans to either FNMA or SONYMA. The Company may additionally issue debt under appropriate circumstances. Although maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and investments are predictable sources of funds, deposits flows and prepayments on mortgage loans and MBS are influenced by interest rates, economic conditions and competition. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. It must additionally compete for deposit monies against the stock and bond markets, especially during periods of strong performance in those arenas. The Banks deposit flows are affected primarily by the pricing and marketing of its deposit products compared to its competitors, as well as the market performance of depositor investment alternatives such as the U.S. bond or equity markets. To the extent that the Bank is responsive to general market increases or declines in interest rates, its deposit flows should not be materially impacted. However, favorable performance of the equity or bond markets could adversely impact the Banks deposit flows. Deposits increased $93.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to a decrease of $295.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company experienced an increase of $86.1 million in CDs and $49.6 in money market accounts, due primarily to successful promotional campaigns. During the year ended December 31, 2005, while short term interest rates were steadily increasing, the Bank, primarily in order to control its overall cost of deposits, elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on its various deposit accounts at or near their existing levels. As a result, the attrition level on deposits increased during that time period (particularly in promotional money market accounts with expiring promotional offering rates) and exceeded the level of new deposits gathered through ongoing promotional programs. As a result, money market deposits declined $284.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. During 2005, the Banks rates on repricing core deposits lagged those of the price leaders in its markets. This strategy served to protect margin, not deposits. Commencing in the first quarter of 2006, there was a slight shift in the Banks deposit pricing posture for competitive reasons. With the average rate on new loans currently generally trending above six percent, attracting and retaining new deposits became more palatable to managing the Banks interest rate risk during 2006 than it was throughout 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, principal repayments totaled $326.8 million on real estate loans and $39.4 million on MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2005, principal repayments totaled $358.5 million on real estate loans and $89.1 million on MBS. The decrease in principal repayments on loans and MBS resulted from a reduction in borrower refinance activities associated with mortgage related assets as a result of increases in interest rates during the period July 2005 through September 2006. The decrease in principal repayments on MBS additionally reflected a reduction in their balance due to the sale of securities in May 2005. Since December 2002, the Bank has originated and sold multifamily residential mortgage loans in the secondary market to FNMA while retaining servicing and generating fee income while it services the loans. The Bank underwrites these loans using its customary underwriting standards, funds the loans, and sells them to FNMA at agreed upon pricing. Typically, the Bank seeks to sell loans with terms to maturity or repricing in excess of seven years from the origination date since it does not desire to retain such loans in portfolio as a result of the heightened interest rate risk they possess. Under the terms of the sales program, the Bank retains a portion of the associated credit risk. Once established, such amount continues to increase as long as the Bank continues to sell loans to FNMA under the program. The Bank retains this exposure until the portfolio of loans sold to FNMA is satisfied in its entirety or the Bank funds claims by FNMA for the maximum loss exposure. During the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Bank sold FNMA $145.4 million and $106.7 million of loans, respectively, pursuant to this program. In order to both replace liquidity lost by the attrition of deposits during 2005 and reduce the overall level of interest rate risk associated with its assets, the Company sold $274.2 million of investment securities and MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005, recognizing a net pre tax loss of $5.2 million on the sale. The cash proceeds of the sale were initially reinvested in overnight funds and other short term (90 day or less) investments with an average yield approximating 3.5%. The securities sold had an average yield of 3.62% and an average estimated duration of 2.4 years upon their disposition. Due in part to the growth in deposit funding during the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company was able to reduce its overall level of borrowings, which, because the interest rates associated with borrowings generally exceed those paid on deposits, helped minimize the increase in the average cost of its interest bearing liabilities while short term interest rates continued to rise. During the year ended December 31, 2006, borrowings declined by $45.2 million on a net basis, as the Company utilized deposit inflows and liquidity F 39 from its investment and MBS portfolios to fund loan growth. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Bank limited asset growth, and, as a result, undertook no new REPO borrowings or FHLBNY advances during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company engaged in two separate borrowing restructuring transactions. In the initial transaction, the Company restructured $145.0 million of its borrowings in order to lower their average cost. Borrowings with a weighted average cost of 4.46% and a weighted average term to maturity of one year were replaced with borrowings having a weighted average cost of 4.17% and a final maturity of ten years, callable after year one. Since portions of the original borrowings were satisfied at a discount, the Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $43,200 in interest expense related to the prepayment. In the second transaction, the Company restructured $170.0 million of wholesale borrowings. Under this restructuring, $120.0 million of REPOs and $50.0 million in FHLBNY advances were prepaid and replaced. The prepaid borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 4.53%, and were replaced with a combination of REPOs and FHLBNY advances having an initial weighted average interest rate of 3.79%. The replacement FHLBNY advances have a 4.4% fixed rate of interest, a final maturity of ten years and are callable by the FHLBNY after a Lockout Period of one, two or three years. The replacement REPOs have a ten year maturity and a Lockout Period of either one or two years. During the Lockout Period, the REPOs are variable rate (indexed to 3 month LIBOR), and have embedded interest rate caps and floors that ensure their reset interest rate will not exceed their initial interest rate. After the Lockout Period, if not called by the lender, the REPOs convert to an average fixed rate of 4.90%. The Company recorded a non recurring reduction of $764,000 in interest expense related to the prepayment. In the event that the Bank should require funds beyond its ability to generate them internally, an additional source of funds is available through use of its borrowing line at the FHLBNY. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had an additional potential borrowing capacity of $389.4 million available provided it owned the minimum required level of FHLBNY common stock (i.e., 4.5% of its outstanding FHLBNY borrowings). The Bank is subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements imposed by the OTS, which, as a general matter, are based on the amount and composition of an institutions assets. At December 31, 2006, the Bank was in compliance with all applicable regulatory capital requirements and was considered "well capitalized" for all regulatory purposes. The Bank uses its liquidity and capital resources primarily for the origination of real estate loans and the purchase of mortgage backed and other securities. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, real estate loan originations totaled $563.2 million and $574.2 million, respectively. Purchases of investment securities (excluding short term investments and federal funds sold) and MBS totaled $4.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $53.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline resulted from reduced levels of liquidity experienced during the period July 2005 through September 2006 (as a result of deposit outflows), that limited the funds available for investment purchases. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Holding Company repurchased 777,539 shares of its common stock into treasury. All shares repurchased were recorded at the acquisition cost, which totaled $11.0 million during the period. As of December 31, 2006, up to 1,686,610 shares remained available for purchase under authorized share purchase programs. Based upon the $14.01 per share closing price of its common stock as of December 31, 2006, the Holding Company would utilize $23.6 million in order to purchase all of the remaining authorized shares. For the Holding Company to complete these share purchases, it would likely require dividend distributions from the Bank. Contractual Obligations The Bank has outstanding at any time, a significant number of borrowings in the form of FHLBNY advances or REPOS. The Holding Company also has an outstanding $25.0 million non callable subordinated note payable due to mature in 2010, and $72.2 million of trust preferred borrowings from third parties due to mature in April 2034, which is callable at any time after April 2009. F 40 The Bank is obligated under leases for certain rental payments due on its branches and equipment. A summary of borrowings and lease obligations at December 31, 2006 is as follows: Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Less than One Year One Year to Three Years Over Three Years to Five Years Over Five Years Total at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands) CDs $961,009 $85,435 $18,225 $ $1,064,669 Weighted average interest rate of CDs (1) 4.73% 3.77% 3.96% % 4.64% Borrowings $210,000 $90,235 $66,000 $422,665 $788,900 Weighted average interest rate of borrowings 4.40% 5.34% 4.24% 4.66% 4.63% Operating lease obligations $1,141 $1,945 $1,650 $3,895 $8,631 Minimum data processing system obligation $752 $1,505 $1,003 $3,260 (1) The weighted average cost of CDs, inclusive of their contractual compounding of interest, was 4.76% at December 31, 2006. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Bank implemented a program in December 2002 to originate and sell multifamily residential mortgage loans in the secondary market to FNMA while retaining servicing. The Bank is required to retain a recourse obligation on all loans sold under this program, which will remain in effect until either the entire portfolio of loans sold to FNMA is satisfied or the Bank funds claims by FNMA for the full balance of the recourse obligation. In addition, as part of its loan origination business, the Bank has outstanding commitments to extend credit to third parties, which are subject to strict credit control assessments. Since many of these loan commitments expire prior to funding, in whole or in part, the contract amounts are not estimates of future cash flows. Less than One Year One Year to Three Years Over Three Years to Five Years Over Five Years Total at December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Credit Commitments: Available lines of credit $71,595 $ $ $ $71,595 Other loan commitments 55,321 55,321 Recourse obligation on loans sold to FNMA 18,495 18,495 Total Credit Commitments $145,411 $ $ $ $145,411 Analysis of Net Interest Income The Companys profitability, like that of most banking institutions, is dependent primarily upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest earnings assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits or borrowings. Net interest income depends on the relative amounts of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them. The following tables set forth certain information relating to the Companys consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and reflect the average yield on interest earning assets and average cost of interest bearing liabilities for the periods indicated. Such yields and costs are derived by dividing interest income or expense by the average balance of interest earning assets or interest bearing liabilities, respectively, for the periods indicated. Average balances are derived from daily balances. The yields and costs include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. All material changes in average balances and interest income or expense are discussed in the comparison of operating results commencing on page F 44. F 41 For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (Dollars in Thousands) Average Average Average Average Yield/ Average Yield/ Average Yield/ Balance Interest Cost Balance Interest Cost Balance Interest Cost Assets: Interest earning assets: Real estate loans (1) $2,649,623 $155,510 5.87% $2,533,205 $148,442 5.86% $2,393,862 $148,844 6.22% Other loans 1,978 190 9.61 2,369 214 9.03 3,325 248 7.46 Investment securities (2) 32,609 2,276 6.98 68,315 2,602 3.81 47,384 1,745 3.68 MBS 177,490 6,850 3.86 324,002 11,699 3.61 618,471 21,091 3.41 Other 116,447 5,984 5.14 197,891 6,755 3.41 129,570 1,830 1.41 Total interest earning assets 2,978,147 170,810 5.74% 3,125,782 169,712 5.43% 3,192,612 $173,758 5.44% Non interest earning assets 148,493 150,765 159,580 Total assets $3,126,640 $3,276,547 $3,352,192 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity: Interest bearing liabilities: NOW, Super Now accounts $35,475 $361 1.02% $40,625 $408 1.00% $41,535 $410 0.99% Money Market accounts 463,885 12,038 2.60 611,673 9,773 1.60 806,582 11,745 1.46 Savings accounts 317,572 1,866 0.59 351,827 1,943 0.55 367,746 1,938 0.53 CDs 1,019,562 42,394 4.16 982,030 28,934 2.95 939,682 23,780 2.53 Borrowed Funds 797,318 36,681 4.60 807,800 36,283 4.49 726,083 29,903 4.12 Total interest bearing liabilities 2,633,812 93,340 3.54% 2,793,955 $77,341 2.77% 2,881,628 $67,776 2.35% Checking accounts 95,067 94,541 93,845 Other non interest bearing liabilities 104,562 101,889 100,926 Total liabilities 2,833,441 2,990,385 3,076,399 Stockholders equity 293,199 286,162 275,793 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $3,126,640 $3,276,547 $3,352,192 Net interest spread (3) 2.19% 2.66% 3.09% Net interest income/ interest margin (4) $77,470 2.60% $92,371 2.96% $105,982 3.22% Net interest earning assets $344,335 $331,827 $310,984 Ratio of interest earning assets to interest bearing liabilities 113.07% 111.88% 110.79% (1) In computing the average balance of real estate loans, non performing loans have been included. Interest income includes loan fees as defined under SFAS 91, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leasesan amendment of FASB Statements No. 13, 60, and 65 and a rescission of FASB Statement No. 17." Interest income also includes applicable prepayment fees and late charges under SFAS 91. (2) Includes interest bearing deposits in other banks. (3) Net interest spread represents the difference between the average yield on interest earning assets and the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (4) The interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets. F 42 Rate/Volume Analysis. The following table represents the extent to which variations in interest rates and the volume of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities have affected interest income and interest expense during the periods indicated. Information is provided in each category with respect to: (i) variances attributable to fluctuations in volume (change in volume multiplied by prior rate), (ii) variances attributable to rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume), and (iii) the net change. Variances attributable to the combined impact of volume and rate have been allocated proportionately to the changes due to volume and the changes due to rate. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Increase/ (Decrease) Due to Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Interest earning assets: (Dollars in Thousands) Real Estate Loans $6,818 $250 $7,068 $8,440 $(8,842) $(402) $13,830 $(26,399) $(12,569) Other loans (37) 13 (24) (79) 45 (34) (22) (28) (50) Investment securities (1,927) 1,601 (326) 783 74 857 (525) (91) (616) MBS (5,475) 626 (4,849) (10,336) 944 (9,392) 3,683 (576) 3,107 Other (3,487) 2,716 (771) 1,650 3,275 4,925 (313) (650) (963) Total $(4,108) $5,206 $1,098 $458 $(4,504) $(4,046) $16,653 $(27,744) $(11,091) Interest bearing liabilities: NOW and Super Now accounts $(54) $7 ($47) $(8) $6 $(2) $86 $(20) $66 Money market accounts (3,107) 5,372 2,265 (2,970) 998 (1,972) 1,857 (852) 1,005 Savings accounts (204) 127 (77) (77) 82 5 (15) (452) (467) CDs 1,342 12,118 13,460 1,140 4,014 5,154 1,784 (2,736) (952) Borrowed funds (481) 879 398 3,529 2,851 6,380 3,167 (6,106) (2,939) Total (2,504) 18,503 15,999 1,614 7,951 9,565 6,879 (10,166) (3,287) Net change in net interest income $(1,604) $(13,297) $(14,901) $(1,156) $(12,455) $(13,611) $9,774 $(17,578) $(7,804) Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 Assets. Assets totaled $3.17 billion at December 31, 2006, a slight increase from total assets of $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005. Real estate loans increased $91.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due primarily to originations of $563.2 million during the period (as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity), that were partially offset by amortization of $326.8 million and sales to FNMA of $145.4 million. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, real estate loan originations totaled $563.2 million and $574.2 million, respectively. The average rate on total loan originations during the year ended December 31, 2006 was 6.43%, compared to 5.77% in the year ended December 31, 2005. Real estate loan prepayment and amortization during the year ended December 31, 2006 approximated 12% of the loan portfolio on an annualized basis, compared to 14% during the year ended December 2005. The decline in prepayment and amortization levels resulted from increases in interest rates from January 2006 to December 2006. Federal funds sold and other short term assets increased $18.7 million during the comparative period as cash flows from maturing investment securities and principal repayments on MBS were reinvested in short term securities and federal funds sold, since the flattened yield curve provided benefits to retaining the funds in short term investments. Partially offsetting the increases in real estate loans and federal funds sold and other short term assets were declines in MBS available for sale and investment securities available for sale of $39.0 million and $15.3 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in MBS available for sale resulted primarily from principal repayments of $39.4 million. The decrease in investment securities available for sale resulted primarily from maturities of $17.1 million. In addition, cash and due from banks declined $13.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 as excess liquidity that was maintained in cash and due from banks at December 31, 2005 was utilized for operations during the year ended December 31, 2006. Liabilities. Total liabilities increased $48.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. Deposits increased $93.8 million during the period (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Partially offsetting this increase was a net decline in borrowings (REPOS and FHLBNY advances) of $45.2 million. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of borrowing activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity declined $1.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due to cash dividends of $19.7 million and treasury stock repurchases of $11.0 million during the period. Additionally, accumulated other comprehensive loss (which is recorded as a negative balance within stockholders equity) increased by $3.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. The change in accumulated comprehensive loss resulted primarily from a charge of $3.8 million caused by the adoption of SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"). The increase of $3.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss caused a corresponding decrease in stockholders equity during the period. F 43 Partially offsetting the decrease to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2006 were net income of $30.6 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $910,000, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. and Certain Affiliates ("ESOP") and The Recognition and Retention Plan for Outside Directors, Officers and Employees of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("RRP") stock benefit plans. The ESOP and RRP possess investments in the Holding Companys common stock that are recorded as reductions in stockholders equity ("Contra Equity Balances"). As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced in a corresponding amount, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 Assets. Assets totaled $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005, a decrease of $251.0 million from total assets of $3.38 billion at December 31, 2004. The decline in assets was experienced primarily in MBS available for sale, which decreased $326.0 million during the period, principally as a result of the sale of $236.9 million of MBS available for sale (see "Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources") and MBS principal payments received totaling $89.0 million. In addition, federal funds sold and other short term investments declined $43.3 million, as the Bank utilized a portion of these short term assets in order to provide operational liquidity while deposit funding was declining. Partially offsetting the decline in MBS and federal funds sold and other short term investments during the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $115.0 million in real estate loans. The increase was attributable to originations of $574.2 million during the period, as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity, that were partially offset by amortization of $358.3 million and sales to FNMA of $108.2 million. Liabilities. Total liabilities decreased $261.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Deposits declined $295.3 million during the period, which was partially offset by an increase of $25.0 million in FHLBNY Advances. (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity increased $10.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due to net income of $36.2 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, tax benefits on stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the ESOP and the RRP stock benefit plans. As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Offsetting the increase to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2005 were cash dividends of $19.9 million and treasury stock repurchases of $12.2 million during the period, along with an increase in other comprehensive loss of $100,000 resulting primarily from the addition of a minimum pension liability of $276,000 during the period. Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 General. Net income was $30.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $5.6 million from net income of $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net interest income decreased $14.9 million, non interest income increased $7.2 million and non interest expense increased $1.2 million, resulting in a decline in pre tax net income of $8.8 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million as a result of the decline in pre tax net income. Net Interest Income. The discussion of net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 presented below should be read in conjunction with the tables on pages F 42 and F 43, which set forth certain information related to the consolidated statements of operations for those periods, and which also present the average yield on assets and average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. The yields and costs were derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of their related assets or liabilities during the periods represented. Average balances were derived from average daily balances. The yields include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. F 44 Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased $14.9 million to $77.5 million, from $92.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was attributable to an increase of $16.0 million in interest expense that was slightly offset by an increase of $1.1 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 47 basis points, from 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 2.19% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 2.96% to 2.60% during the same period. The tightening of monetary policy by the FOMC from the second half of 2004 through June 30, 2006, in combination with various market factors suppressing increases in both general long term interest rates and interest rates offered on real estate loans within the Banks lending market, resulted in a narrowing spread between short and long term interest rates, which negatively impacted net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 77 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. The increase resulted primarily from the following: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, became a larger percentage of the Banks total interest bearing liabilities as a result of runoff in average deposit balances during 2006, and (ii) the average cost of money market deposits and CDs increased by 100 basis points and 121 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2006. (See "Interest Expense" below). Partially offsetting the increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities was an increase of 31 basis points in the average yield on interest earning assets during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average balance of real estate loans (the Banks highest yielding interest earning asset) as a percentage of total interest earning assets, which was coupled with an increase in the average yields on real estate loans and MBS of 1 basis point and 25 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period. The increase in the composition of real estate loans as a percentage of interest earning assets resulted from both loan origination activity during 2006 coupled with a reduction in the level of investment securities and MBS during the same period, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and MBS were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. The increase in average yield on real estate loans reflected ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates during 2006. The increase in average yield on MBS reflected ongoing increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006. Interest Income. Interest income was $170.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.1 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income on real estate loans increased $7.1 million and was partially offset by decreases in interest income on MBS, investment securities and other short term investments of $4.8 million, $326,000 and $771,000, respectively, during the period. The increase in interest income on real estate loans resulted primarily from growth in their average balance of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth reflected real estate loan originations of $563.2 during 2006, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The one basis point increase in average yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates from October 2005 through June 2006, which resulted in an increase in the average origination rate on real estate loans from 5.77% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 6.43% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from a decreased average balance of $146.5 million (resulting primarily from the sale of $236.9 million of MBS in May 2005 and principal repayments on MBS of $39.4 million during 2006), that was partially offset by an increase of 25 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 (resulting from increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006). The decline in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments reflected declines in their average balances of $35.7 million and $81.4 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and other short term investments were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $16.0 million, to $93.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2006, from $77.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth resulted primarily from increased interest expense of $13.5 million related to CDs and $2.3 million related to money market accounts. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from an increase in their average cost of 121 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during 2006, as most of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2005 matured F 45 during this timeframe. In addition, the average balance of CDs increased $37.5 million during the period, reflecting successful gathering of new CDs from promotional activities during 2006. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Partially offsetting this increase was a net decline in borrowings (REPOS and FHLBNY advances) of $45.2 million. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of borrowing activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity declined $1.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due to cash dividends of $19.7 million and treasury stock repurchases of $11.0 million during the period. Additionally, accumulated other comprehensive loss (which is recorded as a negative balance within stockholders equity) increased by $3.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. The change in accumulated comprehensive loss resulted primarily from a charge of $3.8 million caused by the adoption of SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"). The increase of $3.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss caused a corresponding decrease in stockholders equity during the period. F 43 Partially offsetting the decrease to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2006 were net income of $30.6 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $910,000, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. and Certain Affiliates ("ESOP") and The Recognition and Retention Plan for Outside Directors, Officers and Employees of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("RRP") stock benefit plans. The ESOP and RRP possess investments in the Holding Companys common stock that are recorded as reductions in stockholders equity ("Contra Equity Balances"). As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced in a corresponding amount, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 Assets. Assets totaled $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005, a decrease of $251.0 million from total assets of $3.38 billion at December 31, 2004. The decline in assets was experienced primarily in MBS available for sale, which decreased $326.0 million during the period, principally as a result of the sale of $236.9 million of MBS available for sale (see "Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources") and MBS principal payments received totaling $89.0 million. In addition, federal funds sold and other short term investments declined $43.3 million, as the Bank utilized a portion of these short term assets in order to provide operational liquidity while deposit funding was declining. Partially offsetting the decline in MBS and federal funds sold and other short term investments during the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $115.0 million in real estate loans. The increase was attributable to originations of $574.2 million during the period, as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity, that were partially offset by amortization of $358.3 million and sales to FNMA of $108.2 million. Liabilities. Total liabilities decreased $261.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Deposits declined $295.3 million during the period, which was partially offset by an increase of $25.0 million in FHLBNY Advances. (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity increased $10.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due to net income of $36.2 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, tax benefits on stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the ESOP and the RRP stock benefit plans. As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Offsetting the increase to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2005 were cash dividends of $19.9 million and treasury stock repurchases of $12.2 million during the period, along with an increase in other comprehensive loss of $100,000 resulting primarily from the addition of a minimum pension liability of $276,000 during the period. Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 General. Net income was $30.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $5.6 million from net income of $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net interest income decreased $14.9 million, non interest income increased $7.2 million and non interest expense increased $1.2 million, resulting in a decline in pre tax net income of $8.8 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million as a result of the decline in pre tax net income. Net Interest Income. The discussion of net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 presented below should be read in conjunction with the tables on pages F 42 and F 43, which set forth certain information related to the consolidated statements of operations for those periods, and which also present the average yield on assets and average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. The yields and costs were derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of their related assets or liabilities during the periods represented. Average balances were derived from average daily balances. The yields include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. F 44 Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased $14.9 million to $77.5 million, from $92.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was attributable to an increase of $16.0 million in interest expense that was slightly offset by an increase of $1.1 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 47 basis points, from 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 2.19% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 2.96% to 2.60% during the same period. The tightening of monetary policy by the FOMC from the second half of 2004 through June 30, 2006, in combination with various market factors suppressing increases in both general long term interest rates and interest rates offered on real estate loans within the Banks lending market, resulted in a narrowing spread between short and long term interest rates, which negatively impacted net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 77 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. The increase resulted primarily from the following: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, became a larger percentage of the Banks total interest bearing liabilities as a result of runoff in average deposit balances during 2006, and (ii) the average cost of money market deposits and CDs increased by 100 basis points and 121 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2006. (See "Interest Expense" below). Partially offsetting the increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities was an increase of 31 basis points in the average yield on interest earning assets during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average balance of real estate loans (the Banks highest yielding interest earning asset) as a percentage of total interest earning assets, which was coupled with an increase in the average yields on real estate loans and MBS of 1 basis point and 25 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period. The increase in the composition of real estate loans as a percentage of interest earning assets resulted from both loan origination activity during 2006 coupled with a reduction in the level of investment securities and MBS during the same period, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and MBS were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. The increase in average yield on real estate loans reflected ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates during 2006. The increase in average yield on MBS reflected ongoing increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006. Interest Income. Interest income was $170.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.1 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income on real estate loans increased $7.1 million and was partially offset by decreases in interest income on MBS, investment securities and other short term investments of $4.8 million, $326,000 and $771,000, respectively, during the period. The increase in interest income on real estate loans resulted primarily from growth in their average balance of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth reflected real estate loan originations of $563.2 during 2006, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The one basis point increase in average yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates from October 2005 through June 2006, which resulted in an increase in the average origination rate on real estate loans from 5.77% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 6.43% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from a decreased average balance of $146.5 million (resulting primarily from the sale of $236.9 million of MBS in May 2005 and principal repayments on MBS of $39.4 million during 2006), that was partially offset by an increase of 25 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 (resulting from increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006). The decline in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments reflected declines in their average balances of $35.7 million and $81.4 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and other short term investments were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $16.0 million, to $93.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2006, from $77.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth resulted primarily from increased interest expense of $13.5 million related to CDs and $2.3 million related to money market accounts. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from an increase in their average cost of 121 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during 2006, as most of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2005 matured F 45 during this timeframe. In addition, the average balance of CDs increased $37.5 million during the period, reflecting successful gathering of new CDs from promotional activities during 2006. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of borrowing activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity declined $1.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, due to cash dividends of $19.7 million and treasury stock repurchases of $11.0 million during the period. Additionally, accumulated other comprehensive loss (which is recorded as a negative balance within stockholders equity) increased by $3.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. The change in accumulated comprehensive loss resulted primarily from a charge of $3.8 million caused by the adoption of SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"). The increase of $3.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss caused a corresponding decrease in stockholders equity during the period. F 43 Partially offsetting the decrease to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2006 were net income of $30.6 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $910,000, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. and Certain Affiliates ("ESOP") and The Recognition and Retention Plan for Outside Directors, Officers and Employees of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("RRP") stock benefit plans. The ESOP and RRP possess investments in the Holding Companys common stock that are recorded as reductions in stockholders equity ("Contra Equity Balances"). As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced in a corresponding amount, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 Assets. Assets totaled $3.13 billion at December 31, 2005, a decrease of $251.0 million from total assets of $3.38 billion at December 31, 2004. The decline in assets was experienced primarily in MBS available for sale, which decreased $326.0 million during the period, principally as a result of the sale of $236.9 million of MBS available for sale (see "Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources") and MBS principal payments received totaling $89.0 million. In addition, federal funds sold and other short term investments declined $43.3 million, as the Bank utilized a portion of these short term assets in order to provide operational liquidity while deposit funding was declining. Partially offsetting the decline in MBS and federal funds sold and other short term investments during the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $115.0 million in real estate loans. The increase was attributable to originations of $574.2 million during the period, as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity, that were partially offset by amortization of $358.3 million and sales to FNMA of $108.2 million. Liabilities. Total liabilities decreased $261.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Deposits declined $295.3 million during the period, which was partially offset by an increase of $25.0 million in FHLBNY Advances. (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity increased $10.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due to net income of $36.2 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, tax benefits on stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the ESOP and the RRP stock benefit plans. As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Offsetting the increase to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2005 were cash dividends of $19.9 million and treasury stock repurchases of $12.2 million during the period, along with an increase in other comprehensive loss of $100,000 resulting primarily from the addition of a minimum pension liability of $276,000 during the period. Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 General. Net income was $30.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $5.6 million from net income of $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net interest income decreased $14.9 million, non interest income increased $7.2 million and non interest expense increased $1.2 million, resulting in a decline in pre tax net income of $8.8 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million as a result of the decline in pre tax net income. Net Interest Income. The discussion of net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 presented below should be read in conjunction with the tables on pages F 42 and F 43, which set forth certain information related to the consolidated statements of operations for those periods, and which also present the average yield on assets and average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. The yields and costs were derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of their related assets or liabilities during the periods represented. Average balances were derived from average daily balances. The yields include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. F 44 Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased $14.9 million to $77.5 million, from $92.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was attributable to an increase of $16.0 million in interest expense that was slightly offset by an increase of $1.1 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 47 basis points, from 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 2.19% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 2.96% to 2.60% during the same period. The tightening of monetary policy by the FOMC from the second half of 2004 through June 30, 2006, in combination with various market factors suppressing increases in both general long term interest rates and interest rates offered on real estate loans within the Banks lending market, resulted in a narrowing spread between short and long term interest rates, which negatively impacted net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 77 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. The increase resulted primarily from the following: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, became a larger percentage of the Banks total interest bearing liabilities as a result of runoff in average deposit balances during 2006, and (ii) the average cost of money market deposits and CDs increased by 100 basis points and 121 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2006. (See "Interest Expense" below). Partially offsetting the increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities was an increase of 31 basis points in the average yield on interest earning assets during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average balance of real estate loans (the Banks highest yielding interest earning asset) as a percentage of total interest earning assets, which was coupled with an increase in the average yields on real estate loans and MBS of 1 basis point and 25 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period. The increase in the composition of real estate loans as a percentage of interest earning assets resulted from both loan origination activity during 2006 coupled with a reduction in the level of investment securities and MBS during the same period, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and MBS were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. The increase in average yield on real estate loans reflected ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates during 2006. The increase in average yield on MBS reflected ongoing increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006. Interest Income. Interest income was $170.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.1 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income on real estate loans increased $7.1 million and was partially offset by decreases in interest income on MBS, investment securities and other short term investments of $4.8 million, $326,000 and $771,000, respectively, during the period. The increase in interest income on real estate loans resulted primarily from growth in their average balance of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth reflected real estate loan originations of $563.2 during 2006, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The one basis point increase in average yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates from October 2005 through June 2006, which resulted in an increase in the average origination rate on real estate loans from 5.77% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 6.43% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from a decreased average balance of $146.5 million (resulting primarily from the sale of $236.9 million of MBS in May 2005 and principal repayments on MBS of $39.4 million during 2006), that was partially offset by an increase of 25 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 (resulting from increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006). The decline in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments reflected declines in their average balances of $35.7 million and $81.4 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and other short term investments were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $16.0 million, to $93.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2006, from $77.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth resulted primarily from increased interest expense of $13.5 million related to CDs and $2.3 million related to money market accounts. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from an increase in their average cost of 121 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during 2006, as most of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2005 matured F 45 during this timeframe. In addition, the average balance of CDs increased $37.5 million during the period, reflecting successful gathering of new CDs from promotional activities during 2006. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources") and MBS principal payments received totaling $89.0 million. In addition, federal funds sold and other short term investments declined $43.3 million, as the Bank utilized a portion of these short term assets in order to provide operational liquidity while deposit funding was declining. Partially offsetting the decline in MBS and federal funds sold and other short term investments during the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $115.0 million in real estate loans. The increase was attributable to originations of $574.2 million during the period, as interest rates offered on new loans continued to stimulate origination activity, that were partially offset by amortization of $358.3 million and sales to FNMA of $108.2 million. Liabilities. Total liabilities decreased $261.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Deposits declined $295.3 million during the period, which was partially offset by an increase of $25.0 million in FHLBNY Advances. (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity increased $10.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due to net income of $36.2 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, tax benefits on stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the ESOP and the RRP stock benefit plans. As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Offsetting the increase to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2005 were cash dividends of $19.9 million and treasury stock repurchases of $12.2 million during the period, along with an increase in other comprehensive loss of $100,000 resulting primarily from the addition of a minimum pension liability of $276,000 during the period. Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 General. Net income was $30.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $5.6 million from net income of $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net interest income decreased $14.9 million, non interest income increased $7.2 million and non interest expense increased $1.2 million, resulting in a decline in pre tax net income of $8.8 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million as a result of the decline in pre tax net income. Net Interest Income. The discussion of net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 presented below should be read in conjunction with the tables on pages F 42 and F 43, which set forth certain information related to the consolidated statements of operations for those periods, and which also present the average yield on assets and average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. The yields and costs were derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of their related assets or liabilities during the periods represented. Average balances were derived from average daily balances. The yields include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. F 44 Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased $14.9 million to $77.5 million, from $92.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was attributable to an increase of $16.0 million in interest expense that was slightly offset by an increase of $1.1 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 47 basis points, from 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 2.19% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 2.96% to 2.60% during the same period. The tightening of monetary policy by the FOMC from the second half of 2004 through June 30, 2006, in combination with various market factors suppressing increases in both general long term interest rates and interest rates offered on real estate loans within the Banks lending market, resulted in a narrowing spread between short and long term interest rates, which negatively impacted net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 77 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. The increase resulted primarily from the following: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, became a larger percentage of the Banks total interest bearing liabilities as a result of runoff in average deposit balances during 2006, and (ii) the average cost of money market deposits and CDs increased by 100 basis points and 121 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2006. (See "Interest Expense" below). Partially offsetting the increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities was an increase of 31 basis points in the average yield on interest earning assets during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average balance of real estate loans (the Banks highest yielding interest earning asset) as a percentage of total interest earning assets, which was coupled with an increase in the average yields on real estate loans and MBS of 1 basis point and 25 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period. The increase in the composition of real estate loans as a percentage of interest earning assets resulted from both loan origination activity during 2006 coupled with a reduction in the level of investment securities and MBS during the same period, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and MBS were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. The increase in average yield on real estate loans reflected ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates during 2006. The increase in average yield on MBS reflected ongoing increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006. Interest Income. Interest income was $170.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.1 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income on real estate loans increased $7.1 million and was partially offset by decreases in interest income on MBS, investment securities and other short term investments of $4.8 million, $326,000 and $771,000, respectively, during the period. The increase in interest income on real estate loans resulted primarily from growth in their average balance of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth reflected real estate loan originations of $563.2 during 2006, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The one basis point increase in average yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates from October 2005 through June 2006, which resulted in an increase in the average origination rate on real estate loans from 5.77% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 6.43% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from a decreased average balance of $146.5 million (resulting primarily from the sale of $236.9 million of MBS in May 2005 and principal repayments on MBS of $39.4 million during 2006), that was partially offset by an increase of 25 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 (resulting from increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006). The decline in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments reflected declines in their average balances of $35.7 million and $81.4 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and other short term investments were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $16.0 million, to $93.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2006, from $77.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth resulted primarily from increased interest expense of $13.5 million related to CDs and $2.3 million related to money market accounts. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from an increase in their average cost of 121 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during 2006, as most of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2005 matured F 45 during this timeframe. In addition, the average balance of CDs increased $37.5 million during the period, reflecting successful gathering of new CDs from promotional activities during 2006. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of deposit activity). Stockholders Equity. Stockholders equity increased $10.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due to net income of $36.2 million, common stock issued in fulfillment of stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, tax benefits on stock option exercises totaling $2.3 million, and an increase to equity of $1.4 million related to amortization of the ESOP and the RRP stock benefit plans. As compensation expense is recognized on the ESOP and RRP, the Contra Equity Balances are reduced, resulting in an increase to their respective equity balances. This increase to equity offsets the decline in the Companys retained earnings related to the periodic recorded ESOP and RRP expenses. Offsetting the increase to stockholders equity during the year ended December 31, 2005 were cash dividends of $19.9 million and treasury stock repurchases of $12.2 million during the period, along with an increase in other comprehensive loss of $100,000 resulting primarily from the addition of a minimum pension liability of $276,000 during the period. Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 General. Net income was $30.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $5.6 million from net income of $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Net interest income decreased $14.9 million, non interest income increased $7.2 million and non interest expense increased $1.2 million, resulting in a decline in pre tax net income of $8.8 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million as a result of the decline in pre tax net income. Net Interest Income. The discussion of net interest income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 presented below should be read in conjunction with the tables on pages F 42 and F 43, which set forth certain information related to the consolidated statements of operations for those periods, and which also present the average yield on assets and average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. The yields and costs were derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of their related assets or liabilities during the periods represented. Average balances were derived from average daily balances. The yields include fees that are considered adjustments to yields. F 44 Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased $14.9 million to $77.5 million, from $92.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was attributable to an increase of $16.0 million in interest expense that was slightly offset by an increase of $1.1 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 47 basis points, from 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 2.19% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 2.96% to 2.60% during the same period. The tightening of monetary policy by the FOMC from the second half of 2004 through June 30, 2006, in combination with various market factors suppressing increases in both general long term interest rates and interest rates offered on real estate loans within the Banks lending market, resulted in a narrowing spread between short and long term interest rates, which negatively impacted net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 77 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. The increase resulted primarily from the following: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, became a larger percentage of the Banks total interest bearing liabilities as a result of runoff in average deposit balances during 2006, and (ii) the average cost of money market deposits and CDs increased by 100 basis points and 121 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2006. (See "Interest Expense" below). Partially offsetting the increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities was an increase of 31 basis points in the average yield on interest earning assets during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in the average balance of real estate loans (the Banks highest yielding interest earning asset) as a percentage of total interest earning assets, which was coupled with an increase in the average yields on real estate loans and MBS of 1 basis point and 25 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period. The increase in the composition of real estate loans as a percentage of interest earning assets resulted from both loan origination activity during 2006 coupled with a reduction in the level of investment securities and MBS during the same period, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and MBS were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. The increase in average yield on real estate loans reflected ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates during 2006. The increase in average yield on MBS reflected ongoing increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006. Interest Income. Interest income was $170.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.1 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Interest income on real estate loans increased $7.1 million and was partially offset by decreases in interest income on MBS, investment securities and other short term investments of $4.8 million, $326,000 and $771,000, respectively, during the period. The increase in interest income on real estate loans resulted primarily from growth in their average balance of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth reflected real estate loan originations of $563.2 during 2006, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The one basis point increase in average yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from ongoing increases in medium and long term interest rates from October 2005 through June 2006, which resulted in an increase in the average origination rate on real estate loans from 5.77% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 6.43% during the year ended December 31, 2006. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from a decreased average balance of $146.5 million (resulting primarily from the sale of $236.9 million of MBS in May 2005 and principal repayments on MBS of $39.4 million during 2006), that was partially offset by an increase of 25 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 (resulting from increases in short and medium term interest rates during 2006). The decline in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments reflected declines in their average balances of $35.7 million and $81.4 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, as cash flows from maturing investment securities and other short term investments were utilized to fund both loan originations and ongoing operations of the Company. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $16.0 million, to $93.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2006, from $77.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The growth resulted primarily from increased interest expense of $13.5 million related to CDs and $2.3 million related to money market accounts. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from an increase in their average cost of 121 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during 2006, as most of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2005 matured F 45 during this timeframe. In addition, the average balance of CDs increased $37.5 million during the period, reflecting successful gathering of new CDs from promotional activities during 2006. (See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The increase of $2.3 million in interest expense on money market accounts resulted from an increase of 100 basis points in average cost during 2006 that was attributable to increases in short term interest rates during 2006. Partially offsetting the increased cost was a $147.8 million decline in the average balance of money market accounts during 2006 that resulted primarily from a $173.2 million decrease in money market accounts from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2006, as management elected not to compete aggressively for money market balances during this time period. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $240,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline reflected an additional provision of $100,000 taken during 2005 related to consumer loans. Otherwise the provisions taken in 2006 and 2005 reflected inherent losses in the Banks real estate loan portfolio that resulted from ongoing originations. Non Interest Income. Non interest income, excluding gains or losses on the sale of assets, totaled $9.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no material changes in any individual item during the comparable period. The Company sold loans to FNMA totaling $145.4 million and $108.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The gains recorded on these sales were $1.5 million and $924,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The majority of the loans sold during both of these periods were designated for sale upon origination. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $1.1 million on the sale of mutual fund investments associated with the Benefit Maintenance Plan of Dime Community Bancshares, Inc. ("BMP"). During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred a pre tax loss of $5.2 million related to the sale of $274.2 million of investment and mortgage backed securities under a restructuring of its securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold a parcel of real estate obtained in its acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc. in 1999, recognizing a pre tax gain of $478,000. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $1.2 million from the year ended December 31, 2005. Salaries and employee benefits increased $591,000 during the comparative period, reflecting normal salary increases as well as the filling of open and new staffing and management positions. Additions to staff occurred primarily in the retail division of the Bank, where initiatives included product and sales development for business and professional banking. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $369,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 due to both general increases in utility costs and real estate taxes as well as the addition of the Valley Stream branch in March 2006. Data systems expense increased $339,000 during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the expiration of promotional pricing the Company received throughout the first six months of 2005 from its new data systems vendor. Non interest expense to average assets was 1.34% during the year ended the December 31, 2006, compared to 1.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Average assets decreased by $149.9 million during 2006 as a result of the previously discussed declines in the average balance of investment securities, MBS and other short term investments during 2006. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due primarily to a decline of $8.8 million in pre tax net income during the period. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 General. Net income was $36.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $10.0 million from net income of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the comparative period, net interest income decreased $13.6 million, non interest income decreased $5.2 million and non interest expense decreased $1.7 million, resulting in a decline in income before income tax of $17.2 million. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million as a result of the decline in income before income tax. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13.6 million, to $92.4 million, from $106.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. F 46 The decrease was attributable to an increase of $9.6 million in interest expense coupled with a decrease of $4.0 million in interest income. The net interest spread decreased 43 basis points, from 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2.66% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the net interest margin decreased 36 basis points, from 3.32% to 2.96% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected an increase of 42 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities, due primarily to: (i) borrowings, which possess a higher average cost than deposits, becoming a higher percentage of the overall composition of the Banks funding as a result of a runoff in deposit balances during the period (see "Interest Expense" below), and (ii) increases in the average cost of money market deposits, CDs and borrowings of 14 basis points, 42 basis points and 37 basis points, respectively, during the comparative period, reflecting increases in short term interest rates during 2005. In addition, the average yield on interest earning assets declined one basis point during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This decline resulted from a reduction of 36 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans due to a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest Income. Interest income was $169.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4.0 million from $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest income on real estate loans and MBS declined $402,000 and $9.4 million, respectively, during the period. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in interest income on investment securities and other short term investments of $857,000 and $4.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in interest income on real estate loans resulted from a decline of $4.8 million in prepayment fee income during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, as increases in medium and long term interest rates resulted in a reduction in loan refinancing activity during 2005. In addition, since the average interest rate on the loans that satisfied, prepaid and or refinanced during this period was higher than the average yield on the remaining loan portfolio, the average yield on real estate loans declined throughout the period. These factors combined to result in a reduction of 36 basis points in the yield on real estate loans during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Partially offsetting the decrease in interest income on real estate loans that resulted from a decline in their yield was an increase in their average balance of $139.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in the average balance of real estate loans reflected real estate loan originations of $574.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which were partially offset by principal repayments and loan sales during the period. The decline in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from a decreased average balance of $294.5 million (resulting from both the sale of $237.3 million of MBS and principal repayments of $89.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005) that was partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points in average yield during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 (resulting from increases in short term interest rates during 2005). The growth in interest income on investment securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflected increases in both their average yield and average balance during the period. The increase in the average balance of investment securities reflected the purchase of investment securities available for sale totaling $52.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The average yield on investment securities increased 13 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to increases in short term interest rates during 2005. Since the Companys investment securities portfolio is predominantly short and medium term in nature, its overall yield was favorably impacted by the increases in interest rates. The increase in interest income on federal funds sold and other short term investments resulted from an increase of 200 basis points in their average yield, reflecting an increase of 200 basis points in short term interest rates during 2005, and an increase of $68.3 million in their average balance due to managements decision to maintain a higher level of federal funds sold and other short term investments during a period of rising short term interest rates and flat or minimally rising long term interest rates. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $9.6 million, to $77.3 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $67.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The growth in interest expense resulted primarily from increases of $6.4 million and $5.2 million in interest expense on borrowings and CDs, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, the average balance of borrowings increased $81.7 million as a result of the effects upon the computation of average balance of $192.9 million of REPOS and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing that were added during 2004 and remained outstanding throughout the F 47 entire year ended December 31, 2005. The average cost of borrowed funds increased 37 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the replacement of maturing low cost short term borrowings while short term interest rates rose during the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest expense on CDs resulted from both an increase in their average cost of 42 basis points and an increase in their average balance of $42.3 million during the comparative period. The increase in average cost resulted from increases in short term interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a great majority of the Banks CDs outstanding at December 2004 matured during this period. The increase in average balance of CDs reflected $18.6 million of CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2005, as a portion of the Banks non promotional interest rate money market depositors elected to move their balances into CDs as interest rates offered on CDs became more attractive compared to money markets. Partially offsetting the increase in interest expense on CDs and borrowings was a decline of $2.0 million in interest expense on money market accounts. This resulted from a decrease of $194.9 million in their average balance during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, that was partially offset by an increase of 14 basis points in their average cost during the period. Since management of the Bank elected to maintain the non promotional interest rates offered on money markets constant during a period of rising short term interest rates, the Bank experienced an above average level of attrition in non promotional money market accounts, the majority of which flowed out of the Bank and into other financial institutions or Bank CDs (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). This resulted in a decline in the overall average balance of money market accounts during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was $340,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $280,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 (See "Part I Item 1 Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income decreased $5.2 million, to $5.2 million, during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $10.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.2 million on the sale of investment securities and MBS (See "Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources"). During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net gains of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. Service charges and other fees declined $329,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a reduction of $651,000 in retail deposit fees, reflecting both reduced customer fee based activities and competitive fee policies implemented in the local market. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $40.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $1.7 million from the year ended December 31, 2004. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP declined $1.3 million during the comparative period due to both a reduction in the level of allocated shares during the year ended December 31, 2005, (attributable to a decrease in the anticipated loan principal repayment to be made on the underlying ESOP borrowing that became effective January 1, 2005), along with a reduction in the average price of the Companys common stock (from which the recorded ESOP expense is derived). Salaries and employee benefits increased $836,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, reflecting both additional staffing and general salary increases during the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a reduction to expense related to the BMP, reflecting managements decision to forego the defined contribution portion of BMP benefits earned in 2005. Data processing costs decreased $631,000 during the comparative period due to cost savings associated with the new data systems implemented in November 2004. Other expenses declined $682,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the reduction of $777,000 in the core deposit intangible expense associated with the Companys 1999 acquisition of Financial Bancorp, Inc., which fully amortized in January 2005. F 48 Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to a decline of $17.2 million in income before income tax. A decline in the effective tax rate to 36% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 37% during the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from the tax impact of the loss recorded from the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Comparison of the Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 General. Net income was $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $5.1 million from net income of $51.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. During this comparative period, net interest income decreased $2.2 million, non interest income decreased $4.6 million and non interest expense increased $1.6 million, resulting in a decline in income before income taxes of $8.4 million. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million as a result of the reduced income before income taxes. Net Interest Income. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $7.8 million to $106.0 million from $113.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was attributable to a decline of $11.1 million in interest income that was partially offset by a decline of $3.3 million in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The net interest spread decreased 53 basis points from 3.62% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 3.09% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and the net interest margin decreased 58 basis points from 3.90% to 3.32% during the same period. The decrease in both the net interest spread and net interest margin reflected a 90 basis point decline in the average yield on interest earning assets as a result of the continued repricing of assets during the historically low interest rate environment that persisted from January 2002 through December 2004. In addition, prior to January 2004, the overall low interest rate environment resulted in a greater decline in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities than the decline in average yield on interest earning assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the continued low interest rate environment created the opposite effect, resulting in a greater decline in the average yield on interest earning assets than in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. (See section entitled "Interest Income" below for a further discussion of these declines). As a result, both the net interest spread and the net interest margin, which had increased during most of 2003 and 2002, declined during the year ended December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average yield on real estate loans and MBS, which collectively comprised the great majority of the Companys interest earning assets, declined by 115 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively (See the discussion entitled "Interest Income" below for a further examination of these declines). Partially offsetting the decline in the average yield on interest earning assets was a reduction of 37 basis points in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities. This resulted primarily from declines in the average cost of borrowings of 88 basis points and a decline in the average cost of CDs of 30 basis points, coupled with the movement of the overall composition of funding from higher cost borrowings into deposits with a lower average cost (See the discussion entitled "Interest Expense" below for a further examination of these declines). Interest Income. Interest income was $173.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $11.1 million from $184.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest income on real estate loans, investment securities and other short term investments declined by $12.6 million, $616,000 and $963,000, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase of $3.1 million in interest income on MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest income resulted from the historically low interest rate environment that existed during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004. That environment stimulated the refinancing and prepayment of higher rate loans in the Banks portfolio, while also resulting in reduced rates on existing portfolio loans that repriced during the period January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004 (although the levels of refinancing and prepayment did experience a decline during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an increase in interest rates). Prepayment fee income declined $5.6 million, due to a decrease in refinancing driven by the significant levels of refinancing that occurred during 2003, as well as increases in interest rates during the second half of 2004. The combination of these two factors resulted in a decline of 115 basis points in the average yield on real estate loans (the Banks largest interest earning asset) during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The average yield on MBS declined 10 basis points during the same period as a result of the high level of prepayments on portfolio securities during 2003 and 2002 as well as the purchase of new securities during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004 while rates were historically low. Finally, as a result of the low interest rate environment, the average yields on investment securities and other short term investments also declined by 17 basis points and 47 basis points, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. F 49 The Banks general policy has been to emphasize growth in real estate loans as its primary interest earning asset, and de emphasize its investment and MBS portfolios, while loan origination demand is strong. However, as part of a specific investment strategy to achieve a desirable balance of yield and liquidity on short term investments, the Bank purchased $398.2 million of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004. This purchase level exceeded the level of MBS principal repayments of $206.5 million during the same period, and contributed to an overall increase of $106.6 million in the average balance of MBS during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result, the dollar amount of interest income on MBS increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, despite the decline in average yield of 10 basis points during the same period. Interest Expense. Interest expense declined $3.3 million, to $67.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction of $2.9 million in interest expense on borrowed funds, due to a decline of 88 basis points in the average cost of borrowed funds during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Company reduced its total borrowings by $103.9 million by either not replacing borrowings that matured or prepaying outstanding debt. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred $4.1 million of expense on prepaid borrowings, which increased the average cost of borrowed funds by 63 basis points during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company added $192.9 million of REPOS, and a $72.2 million trust preferred borrowing. The REPOS were added during the period of historically low interest rates; and, therefore, possessed a lower average cost than the existing average cost within the Companys total portfolio of borrowings, which was not materially impacted by the increases in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The trust preferred borrowing added 26 basis points to the average cost of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004. The combination of activity in these two periods resulted in an overall increase of $69.9 million in the average balance of borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, but a decline of 88 basis points in their average cost. During the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, the average cost of CDs, the next largest component of interest expense during the 2004 period, declined by 30 basis points, while their average balance increased by $67.1 million. The combination of these two events resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $952,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. The decline in interest rates offered on CDs reflected the continued low level of interest rates paid during the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. The increase in the average balance of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from new promotional CDs added during the year ended December 31, 2004. The average cost of savings accounts declined by 12 basis points during the comparative period, resulting in a $467,000 reduction in interest expense. The decline in average cost reflected reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates that occurred during the period June through December 2004. Interest expense on money market accounts increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due to an increase in average balance of $124.3 million during the period. The increase in average balance reflected successful deposit gathering promotions during the period July 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in the average cost of money market accounts of 11 basis points, reflecting reductions in interest rates paid by the Bank as a result of the overall low interest rate environment in effect during 2004, which was not materially impacted by the increase in short term interest rates from June 2004 through December 2004. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses was approximately $280,000 during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See "Item 1. Business Allowance for Loan Losses"). Non Interest Income. Non interest income increased $988,000, to $10.4 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This change resulted primarily from a net increase of $1.0 million in net gains recorded on the sale of loans, investment securities and MBS. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the net gain on the sale of loans was $336,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.6 million on the sale of loans (primarily multifamily residential) to FNMA. Increases in interest rates during 2004 reduced the level of gain recorded on loans sold from the Banks portfolio to FNMA. The gain on portfolio loan sales to FNMA was significantly higher during 2003, when rates were at historic lows. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a net gain of $377,000 on the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a net loss of $1.9 million on F 50 the sale of investment and mortgage backed securities. The sale of securities and associated loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 were incurred in connection with a balance sheet restructuring performed in October 2003. Non Interest Expense. Non interest expense was $42.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.6 million over the year ended December 31, 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $491,000, primarily as a result of a reduction of $1.6 million in benefits accrued under the BMP, which was partially offset by increased salaries resulting from both general salary increases and added staff. The benefit costs associated with the ESOP and RRP increased $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to the recording of expense related to dividends paid on unallocated ESOP shares that commenced in 2004. Data processing costs increased $765,000 during the comparative period, primarily due to non recurring charges approximating $640,000 associated with a loan servicing, retail deposit branch operations and accounting transaction processing data system conversion completed by the Company in November 2004. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $159,000 due to increased maintenance and utility costs and increased depreciation expense associated with acquired furniture and fixtures. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased $3.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003, due primarily to a decline of $8.4 million in income before income tax. The effective tax rate approximated 37.5% during both of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of operations. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of the Companys consolidated assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on the Companys consolidated performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or to the same extent as the price of goods and services. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards, please see Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements that commence on page F 62. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a depository financial institution, the Banks primary source of market risk is interest rate volatility. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately impact the level of interest income recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also ultimately impact the level of interest expense recorded on, and the market value of, a significant portion of the Banks liabilities. In addition, the Banks real estate loan portfolio, concentrated primarily within the NYC metropolitan area, is subject to risks associated with the local economy. The largest component of the Banks interest earning assets, real estate loans, derives its current interest rate primarily from either the five or seven year constant maturity Treasury index. As a result, the Banks interest earning assets are most sensitivity to these benchmark interest rates. Since the majority of the Banks interest bearing liabilities mature within one year, its interest bearing liabilities are most sensitive to fluctuations in short term interest rates. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank is subject to foreign currency exchange or commodity price risk. In addition, the Company owned no trading assets, nor did it engage in any hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and caps) or embedded derivative instruments that required bifurcation during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005. In the future, the Company may, with appropriate Board approval, engage in hedging transactions utilizing derivative instruments. F 51 Since a majority of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are located at the Bank, virtually all of the interest rate risk exposure exists at the Bank level. As a result, all of the significant interest rate risk management procedures are performed at the Bank level. The Banks interest rate risk management strategy is designed to limit the volatility of net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements and has the following three primary components. Assets. The Banks largest single asset type is the adjustable rate multifamily residential loan. Multifamily residential loans typically carry shorter average terms to maturity than one to four family residential loans, thus significantly reducing the overall level of interest rate risk. Approximately 80% of multifamily residential loans originated during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were adjustable rate, with repricing typically occurring after five or seven years, compared to approximately 80% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the Bank has sought to include in its portfolio various types of adjustable rate one to four family loans and adjustable and floating rate investment securities, which generally have repricing terms of three years or less. At December 31, 2006, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.26 billion, or 71.1% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.8 million, or 0.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2005, adjustable rate real estate and consumer loans totaled $2.14 billion, or 68.6% of total assets, and adjustable rate investment securities (CMOs, REMICs, MBS issued by GSEs and other securities) totaled $23.0 million, or 0.7% of total assets. Deposit Liabilities. As a traditional community based savings bank, the Bank is largely dependent upon its base of competitively priced core deposits to provide stability on the liability side of the balance sheet. The Bank has retained many loyal customers over the years through a combination of quality service, convenience, and a stable and experienced staff. Core deposits, at December 31, 2006, were $943.9 million, or 47.0% of total deposits. The balance of CDs as of December 31, 2006 was $1.06 billion, or 53.0% of total deposits, of which $961.0 million, or 90.3%, were to mature within one year. The weighted average maturity of the Banks CDs at December 31, 2006 was 6.2 months compared to 6.9 months at December 31, 2005. While the Bank generally prices its CDs in an effort to encourage the extension of the average maturities of deposit liabilities beyond one year, the decline in the average maturity of CDs during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected customer recognition that rising short term interest rates during 2006 made long term CDs less desirable. Wholesale Funds. The Bank is a member of the FHLBNY, which provided the Bank with a borrowing line of up to $935.9 million at December 31, 2006. The Bank borrows from the FHLBNY for various purposes. At December 31, 2006, the Bank had outstanding advances of $571.5 million from the FHLBNY, of which $546.5 million were unsecured. The Bank has authority to accept brokered deposits as a source of funds. The Bank had no outstanding brokered deposits at either December 31, 2006 or December 31, 2005. Interest Sensitivity Gap The Bank regularly monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the calculation of an interest sensitivity gap. The interest sensitivity gap is the difference between the amount of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific period. The interest sensitivity gap is considered positive when the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within a specified time frame exceeds the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. Conversely, the interest sensitivity gap is considered negative when the amount of interest bearing liabilities anticipated to mature or reprice within a specific time frame exceeds the amount of interest earning assets anticipated to mature or reprice within the same period. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus an increase in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience a decline in net interest income. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, an institution with a positive interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater decline in the yields of its assets relative to the costs of its liabilities and thus a decrease in its net interest income, whereas an institution with a negative interest sensitivity gap would generally be expected to experience an increase in net interest income. The following table sets forth the amounts of the Companys consolidated interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2006 which are anticipated, based upon certain assumptions, to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the time periods shown. Except as stated below, the amounts of assets and liabilities shown repricing or maturing during a particular period reflect the earlier of term to repricing or maturity of the asset or liability. The table is intended to provide an approximation of the projected repricing of assets and liabilities which existed at December 31, 2006 on the basis of contractual maturities, anticipated prepayments, and scheduled rate adjustments within a three month period and selected subsequent time intervals. For purposes of presentation in the table, the Bank utilized its historical deposit attrition experience ("Deposit Decay Rate") for savings accounts, which it believes to be the most accurate measure. For NOW, Super NOW and money market accounts, it utilized the Deposit Decay Rates published by the OTS. F 52 All amounts calculated in the table for both loans and MBS reflect principal balances expected to reprice as a result of contractual interest rate adjustments or from reinvestment of cash flows generated from anticipated principal repayments (inclusive of early prepayments). There are certain limitations inherent in the method of analysis presented in the table. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may possess similar maturities or periods to repricing, they are impacted by different market forces, and may therefore react differently to changes in interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may lag behind changes in market rates. Additionally, certain assets, such as adjustable rate loans, have features, like annual and lifetime rate caps, which restrict changes in the interest rates charged, both on a short term basis and over the life of the asset. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayment and early withdrawal levels would likely deviate from those assumed in the table. Finally, the ability of certain borrowers to make scheduled payments on their adjustable rate loans may decrease in the event of an interest rate increase. F 53 At December 31, 2006 3 Months or Less More than 3 Months to 6 Months More than 6 Months to 1 Year More than 1 Year to 3 Years More than 3 Years to 5 Years More than 5 Years Non interest bearing Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest Earning Assets (1): Mortgages and other loans $136,588 $88,689 $180,232 $1,199,700 $847,129 $251,335 $2,703,673 Investment securities 21,617 1,219 6,947 29,783 MBS (2) 9,862 8,145 16,292 45,650 28,131 46,357 154,437 Other short term Investments 78,752 78,752 FHLBNY capital stock 31,295 31,295 Total interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 2,997,940 Less: Allowance for loan losses $(15,514) (15,514) Net interest earning assets 278,114 96,834 196,524 1,246,569 875,260 304,639 (15,514) 2,982,426 Non interest earning assets 190,951 190,951 Total assets $278,114 $96,834 $196,524 $1,246,569 $875,260 $304,639 $175,437 $3,173,377 Interest Bearing Liabilities Savings accounts $10,367 $10,016 $19,024 $63,208 $47,789 $148,118 $298,522 NOW and Super NOW accounts 3,286 2,982 5,161 11,727 3,629 8,734 35,519 Money market accounts 101,635 81,562 117,980 101,490 53,229 58,711 514,607 CDs 306,219 395,120 259,670 85,435 18,225 1,064,669 Borrowed funds 185,000 25,000 172,500 98,235 16,000 195,000 691,735 Subordinated notes 25,000 25,000 Trust preferred securities 72,165 72,165 Interest bearing escrow 1,412 1,412 Total interest bearing liabilities 606,507 514,680 574,335 360,095 163,872 484,140 2,703,629 Checking accounts $95,215 95,215 Other non interest bearing liabilities 83,902 83,902 Stockholders equity 290,631 290,631 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $606,507 $514,680 $574,335 $360,095 $163,872 $484,140 $469,748 $3,173,377 Positive (Negative) interest sensitivity gap per period $(328,393) $(417,846) $(377,811) $886,474 $711,388 $(179,501) Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap $(328,393) $(746,239) $(1,124,050) $(237,576) $473,812 $294,311 Positive (Negative) cumulative interest sensitivity gap as a percent of total assets (10.35)% (23.52)% (35.42)% (7.49)% 14.93% 9.27% Cumulative total interest earning assets as a percent of cumulative total interest bearing liabilities 45.86% 33.44% 33.70% 88.44% 121.35% 110.89% (1) Interest earning assets are included in the period in which the balances are expected to be redeployed and or repriced as a result of anticipated prepayments, scheduled rate adjustments, or contractual maturities or calls. (2) Based upon historical repayment experience, and, where applicable, balloon payment dates. F 54 At December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated balance sheet was composed primarily of assets that were estimated to mature or reprice within five years, with a significant portion maturing or repricing within one year. In addition, the Banks deposit base was composed primarily of savings accounts, money market accounts and CDs with maturities of two years or less. At December 31, 2006, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.70 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $571.5 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $1.12 billion, or negative 35.4% of total assets. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, interest bearing liabilities estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $1.48 billion, while interest earning assets estimated to mature or reprice within one year totaled $569.0 million, resulting in a negative one year interest sensitivity Gap of $909.1 million, or negative 29.1% of total assets. The increase in the magnitude of the one year negative interest sensitivity Gap resulted from an increase in the level of CDs and money market accounts maturing or repricing in one year or less, reflecting growth in their balance from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Under interest rate scenarios other than that which existed on December 31, 2006, the interest sensitivity Gap for assets and liabilities could differ substantially based upon different assumptions about the manner in which core Deposit Decay Rates and loan prepayments would change. For example, the interest rate risk management model assumes that in a rising rate scenario, by paying competitive rates on non core deposits, a portion of core deposits will transfer to CDs and be retained, although at higher cost. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, loan and MBS prepayment rates would be expected to slow, as borrowers postpone loan refinancings until rates again decline. Interest Rate Risk Exposure (NPV) Compliance Under guidelines established by OTS Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Bank also measures its interest rate risk through an analysis of the change in its NPV under several interest rate scenarios. NPV is the difference between the present value of the expected future cash flows of the Banks assets and liabilities, plus the value of net expected cash flows from either loan origination commitments or purchases of securities. Generally, the fair value of fixed rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could thus result in decreases in the fair value of interest earning assets, which could adversely affect the Companys consolidated results of operations if they were to be sold, or, in the case of interest earning assets classified as available for sale, reduce the Companys consolidated stockholders equity, if retained. The changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of those assets and liabilities. Under GAAP, changes in the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, on securities classified as available for sale are reflected in stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2006, the Companys consolidated securities portfolio included $184.0 million in securities classified as available for sale, which possessed a gross unrealized loss of $5.6 million. Neither the Holding Company nor the Bank owned any trading assets as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. In order to measure the Banks sensitivity to changes in interest rates, NPV is calculated under market interest rates prevailing at a given quarter end ("Pre Shock Scenario"), and under various other interest rate scenarios ("Rate Shock Scenarios") representing immediate, permanent, parallel shifts in the term structure of interest rates from the actual term structure observed at quarter end. The changes in NPV between the Pre Shock Scenario and various Rate Shock Scenarios due to fluctuations in interest rates reflect the interest rate sensitivity of the Banks assets, liabilities, and commitments to either originate or sell loans and or purchase or sell securities that are included in the NPV. The NPV ratio under any interest rate scenario is defined as the NPV in that scenario divided by the present value of the assets in the same scenario (the "NPV Ratio"). An interest rate risk exposure compliance report is presented to the Banks Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The report, prepared in accordance with Thrift Bulletin 13a, compares the Banks estimated Pre Shock Scenario NPV to the estimated NPVs calculated under the various Rate Shock Scenarios. The calculated estimates of the resulting NPV Ratios are compared to current limits established by management and approved by the Board of Directors. F 55 The analysis that follows presents the estimated NPV in the Pre Shock Scenario and four Rate Shock Scenarios and measures the dollar amount and percentage by which each of the Rate Shock Scenario NPVs changes from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV. Interest rate sensitivity is measured by the changes in the various Rate Shock Scenario NPV Ratios from the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio. At December 31, 2006 Net Portfolio Value At December 31, 2005 Dollar Amount Dollar Change Percentage Change NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio NPV Ratio Basis Point Change in NPV Ratio Board Approved NPV Limit (Dollars in Thousands) Rate Shock Scenario + 200 Basis Points $306,488 ($79,714) 20.64% 10.01% (220) 10.69% (235) 6.0% + 100 Basis Points 349,577 36,625 9.48 11.22 (99) 12.01 (103) 7.0 Pre Shock 386,202 12.21 13.04 8.0 100 Basis Points 405,945 19,743 5.11 12.67 46 13.66 62 8.0 200 Basis Points 402,937 16,735 4.33 12.47 26 13.25 21 8.0 The NPVs presented above incorporate some asset and liability values derived from the Banks valuation model, such as those for mortgage loans and time deposits, and some asset and liability values that are provided by reputable independent sources, such as values for the Banks MBS and CMO portfolios, as well as its putable borrowings. The valuation model makes various estimates regarding cash flows from principal repayments on loans and passbook Deposit Decay Rates at each level of interest rate change. The Banks estimates for loan prepayment levels are influenced by the recent history of prepayment activity in its loan portfolio as well as the interest rate composition of the existing portfolio, especially vis vis the current interest rate environment. In addition, the Bank considers the amount of prepayment fee protection inherent in the loan portfolio when estimating future prepayment cash flows. Regarding passbook Deposit Decay Rates, the Bank tracks and analyzes the decay rate of its passbook deposits over time and over various interest rate scenarios and then makes estimates of its passbook Deposit Decay Rate for use in the valuation model. Nevertheless, no matter the care and precision with which the estimates are derived, actual cash flows for passbooks, as well as loans, could differ significantly from the Banks estimates resulting in significantly different NPV calculations. The Bank also generates a series of spot discount rates that are integral to the valuation of the projected monthly cash flows of its assets and liabilities. The Banks valuation model employs discount rates that are representative of prevailing market rates of interest, with appropriate adjustments suited to the heterogeneous characteristics of the Banks various asset and liability portfolios. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV declined from $408.9 million at December 31, 2005 to $386.2 million at December 31, 2006. The Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio was 12.21% at December 31, 2006, down from 13.04% at December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a decline in the Banks equity resulting from $58.0 million of capital distributions during the year ended December 31, 2006 that exceeded the Banks earnings during the same period, which was partially offset by an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005, that resulted from a reduction in their term to next repricing. The decrease in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV Ratio reflected the decline in the Pre Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The Banks +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV decreased from $323.4 million at December 31, 2005 to $306.5 million at December 31, 2006. This decline also resulted from the reduction of the Banks equity from the $58.0 million capital distribution during the year ended December 31, 2006 which was partially offset by earnings during the period and an increased valuation of multifamily loans at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. The increased valuation of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from their shorter term to next repricing at December 31, 2006, which reduced the decrease in their valuation from lower expected prepayment and amortization levels in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario versus the Pre Shock Scenario. The NPV Ratio was 10.01% in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006, down from 10.69% at December 31, 2005. The decrease reflected the aforementioned decline in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario NPV during the period. At December 31, 2006, the sensitivity change in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario was 220 basis points, compared to a sensitivity change of 235 basis points in the +200 F 56 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2005. The reduction in sensitivity was primarily due to the aforementioned increase in the value of multifamily loans in the +200 basis point Rate Shock Scenario at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. 
</SECTION>
