<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: IMPAC MORTGAGE HOLDINGS INC
CIK: 0001000298
SIC: 6798
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070314
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations." Servicing We sell or subcontract all of our servicing obligations to independent third parties pursuant to sub servicing agreements. We believe that the sale of servicing rights or the selection of third party sub servicers is more effective than establishing a servicing department within our mortgage operations. However, part of our responsibility is to continually monitor the performance of servicers or sub servicers through performance reviews and regular site visits. Depending on our reviews, we may in the future rely on our internal default management group to take an ever more active role to assist servicers or sub servicers in the servicing of our mortgages. Servicing includes collecting and remitting loan payments, making required advances, accounting for principal and interest, holding escrow or impound funds for payment of taxes and insurance, if applicable, making required inspections of the mortgaged property, contacting delinquent borrowers, and supervising foreclosures and property dispositions in the event of un remedied defaults in accordance with our guidelines. Servicing fees are charged on the declining principal balances of mortgages serviced. Residential servicing generally ranges from 0.25 percent per annum for FRMs, 0.375 percent per annum for ARMs, 0.50 percent per annum for subprime mortgages and 0.75 percent per annum for services of delinquent loans for properties secured by second liens. Commercial servicing generally ranges from 0.25 percent per annum to 0.75 percent for special servicing of delinquent loans. To the extent the mortgage operations finance the acquisition of mortgages with facilities provided by the warehouse lending operations, the mortgage operations pledges mortgages and the related servicing rights to the warehouse lending operations as collateral. As a result, the warehouse lending operations have an absolute right to control the servicing of such mortgages, including the right to collect payments on the underlying mortgages, and to foreclose upon the underlying real property in the case of default. Typically, the warehouse lending operations delegate its right to service the mortgages securing the facility to the mortgage operations. The following table presents information regarding our mortgage servicing portfolio which includes our mortgages held for sale and our mortgage portfolio for the periods shown (dollars in millions, except average loan size and number of mortgages serviced): For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Beginning servicing portfolio $ 2,208.4 $ 1,690.8 $ 1,402.1 Add: Loan acquisitions and originations 12,560.2 22,310.6 22,213.1 Less: Servicing transferred and principal repayment (1) (13,270.3 ) (21,793.0 ) (21,924.4 ) Ending servicing portfolio $ 1,498.3 $ 2,208.4 $ 1,690.8 Number of loans serviced 5,435 10,892 9,256 Average loan size $ 276,000 $ 203,000 $ 183,000 Weighted average coupon rate 7.15% 6.39% 6.62% (1)Includes the sale of mortgages on a servicing released basis, the sale of servicing rights on mortgages owned and scheduled and unscheduled principal repayments. Interest Rate Risk Management The mortgage operations manage interest rate risk and price volatility on its pipeline of rate locked mortgage loans, or "mortgage pipeline," during the time it commits to acquire or originate mortgages at a pre determined rate and the time it sells the mortgage loans. To mitigate interest rate and price volatility risks, the mortgage operations may enter into derivatives. The nature and quantity of derivatives are determined based on various factors, including expected pull through, price sensitivity, market conditions, and the expected volume of mortgage acquisitions and originations. For additional information regarding interest rate risk management activities refer to 16 Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and "Note Q Derivative Instruments" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Commercial Operations On January 1, 2006, the Company elected to convert Impac Commercial Capital Corporation "ICCC" from a qualified REIT subsidiary to a taxable REIT subsidiary. On June 30, 2006, the Company approved the transfer of ICCC to be a wholly owned subsidiary of IFC effective January 1, 2006. The commercial operations originate commercial mortgages and multi family mortgages that are primarily hybrid adjustable rate mortgages with initial fixed interest rate periods of two , three , five , seven and ten years that subsequently convert to adjustable rate mortgages, with balances that generally range from $500,000 to $5.0 million. Commercial mortgages have interest rate floors, which are the initial start rates; in some circumstances have lockouts and prepayment penalty periods of three , five , seven and ten years. These mortgages provide greater asset diversification on our balance sheet as commercial mortgage borrowers typically have higher credit scores and typically have lower loan to value ratios, or "LTV ratios," and the mortgages have longer average lives than residential mortgages. Commercial mortgages include multifamily mortgages and commercial property mortgages ("commercial mortgages"). During 2006, the commercial operations originated $983.4 million in commercial mortgages compared to $798.5 million originated by the REIT in 2005. Securitization and Sales During 2006, the commercial operations sold $526.6 million in principal balance of mortgages as consolidated REMICs to the long term investment operations, sold $35.0 million in principal balance of commercial mortgages as whole loan sales and sold $240.6 million in principal balance of commercial mortgages as REMICs to third parties. Generally, the commercial operations sell all of its mortgage acquisitions and originations to third party investors as servicing released, which means that it does not retain primary mortgage servicing rights. However, the commercial operations retains rights as master servicer for its securitizations, see "Master Servicing" above. Warehouse Lending Operations The warehouse lending operations provide warehouse lines of credit to affiliated companies and reverse repurchase financing to approved, non affiliated mortgage bankers, or "non affiliated clients," some of which are correspondents of the mortgage operations, to finance mortgages during the time from the closing of the mortgages to sale or other settlement with pre approved investors. The warehouse lending operations rely mainly on the sale or liquidation of the mortgages as a source of repayment. Any claim of the warehouse lending operations as a secured lender in a bankruptcy proceeding may be subject to adjustment and delay. Advances to customers under these facilities are presented on our balance sheet as finance receivables. Terms of non affiliated clients repurchase facilities, including the commitment amount, are determined based upon the financial strength, historical performance and other qualifications of the borrower. As of December 31, 2006, the warehouse lending operations had approved facilities to non affiliated clients of $724.0 million, of which $306.3 million was outstanding, as compared to $691.5 million and $350.2 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2005. Regulation We establish underwriting guidelines that include provisions for inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and determine maximum loan amounts. Our mortgage acquisition and origination activities are subject to, among other laws, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Truth in Lending Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act, Fair Housing Act, Gramm Leach, Bliley Act, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Can Spam Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and the regulations promulgated there under. These laws and regulations, among other things, prohibit discrimination and require the disclosure of certain basic information to mortgagors concerning credit terms and settlement costs, prohibit the payment of kickbacks for the referral of business incident to a real estate settlement service, limit payment for settlement services to the reasonable value of the services rendered and goods furnished, restrict the marketing practices we may use to find customers, require us to safeguard non public 17 information about our customers and require the maintenance and disclosure of information regarding the disposition of mortgage applications based on race, gender, geographical distribution, price and income level. Our mortgage acquisition and origination activities are also subject to state and local laws and regulations, including state licensing laws, anti predatory lending laws, and may also be subject to applicable state usury statutes. IFC is an approved Fannie Mae seller/servicer, an approved servicer of Freddie Mac, and an approved Housing and Urban Development "HUD" lender. In addition, IFC is required annually to submit to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and HUD audited financial statements, or the equivalent, according to the financial reporting requirements of each regulatory entity for its sellers/ servicers. IFCs affairs are also subject to examination by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac at any time to assure compliance with applicable regulations, policies and procedures. Also refer to "Regulatory Risks" under Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion of regulations that may effect our Company. Competition In acquiring and originating Alt A mortgages and issuing securities backed by such mortgages, we compete with other established mortgage conduit programs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, thrift and loan associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, other lenders and other entities purchasing mortgage assets. As loan originations diminish, the mortgage industry may experience a consolidation that may reduce the number of current correspondents and independent mortgage bankers and brokers available to the mortgage operations, reducing our potential customer base and resulting in the mortgage operations and commercial operations acquiring and originating a larger percentage of mortgages from a smaller number of customers. In addition, while consolidation continues to occur in the mortgage industry, price competition among competitors can affect the profitability on the sale of mortgage loans or the return on investments, as mortgage lenders are willing to cut their profitability margins to maintain current production levels. Changes of this nature could continue to negatively impact our businesses. Mortgage backed securities issued by the mortgage operations and the long term investment operations face competition from other investment opportunities available to prospective investors. We face competition in our mortgage operations, commercial operations and warehouse lending operations from other financial institutions, including but not limited to banks and investment banks. Our main competitors include Countrywide Home Loans, IndyMac Bancorp, Inc., Greenpoint Financial Corporation, Residential Funding Corporation, Aurora Loan Services, Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation and Bear Stearns and Company, Inc. Competition can take place on various levels, including convenience in obtaining a mortgage, service, marketing, origination channels and pricing. We depend primarily on correspondents and independent mortgage bankers and brokers for the acquisition and origination of mortgages. These independent mortgage bankers and brokers deal with multiple lenders for each prospective borrower. We compete with these lenders for the independent bankers and brokers business on the basis of price, service, loan fees, costs and other factors. Our competitors also seek to establish relationships with such bankers and brokers, who are not obligated by contract or otherwise to do business with us. Many of the institutions with which we compete in our mortgage operations, commercial operations, and warehouse lending operations have significantly greater financial resources than we have. However, we can compete effectively with other Alt A mortgage conduits through our efficient loan purchasing process, flexible purchase commitment options and competitive pricing and by designing Alt A mortgage programs that suit the needs of our correspondents and their borrowers, which is intended to provide sufficient credit quality to our investors. Risk factors, as outlined below, provide additional information related to risks associated with competition in the mortgage banking industry. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 827 full time and part time employees. Management believes that relations with its employees are good. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. 18  Revisions in Policies and Strategies Our board of directors has approved our investment and operating policies and strategies. Our core operations involve the acquisition and origination of mortgages and their subsequent securitization and sale. We also act as a warehouse lender providing financing facilities to mortgage originators. These operations and their associated policies and strategies, are further described herein. Our board of directors has delegated asset/liability management to the Asset/Liability Committee, or "ALCO," which reports to the board of directors at least quarterly. See a further discussion of ALCO in Item 7. "Managements Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Any of our policies, strategies and activities may be modified or waived by our board of directors without stockholder consent. Developments in the market, which affect the policies and strategies mentioned herein or which change our assessment of the market, may cause our board of directors to revise our policies and financing strategies. We have elected to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have adopted certain compliance guidelines to ensure we maintain our REIT status which include limitations on the acquisition, holding and sale of certain assets. The long term investment operations primarily invest in Alt A and commercial mortgages. The long term investment operation does not limit the proportion of its assets that may be invested in each type of mortgage. We closely monitor our acquisition and investment in mortgage assets and the sources of our income, including income or expense from interest rate risk management strategies, to ensure at all times that we maintain our qualifications as a REIT. We have developed certain accounting systems and testing procedures to facilitate our ongoing compliance with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. No changes in our investment policies, including credit criteria for mortgage asset investments, may be made without the approval of our board of directors. We may at times and on terms that our Board of Directors deem appropriate: Issue senior securities In 2006 and 2005, we issued an aggregate of 72,800 shares and 71,200 shares, respectively, of our 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25.00 per share; Borrow money We finance our operations in large part through the issuance of securitized mortgages and short term borrowings under reverse repurchase agreements; Make loans to other persons The warehouse lending operations provide financing to affiliated companies and to approved non affiliated clients, some of which are correspondents of the mortgage operations, to finance mortgages during the time from the closing of the mortgages to their sale or other settlement with pre approved investors; Engage in the purchase and sale of investment In connection with the issuance of mortgage backed securities by our mortgage operations in the form of REMICs, our long term investment operations may retain senior or subordinated securities on a short or long term basis; Repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or other securities in the future During 2005, we adopted a repurchase plan to repurchase up to 5.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market. As of the date of the filing of this report, we have repurchased 104,300 shares of common stock; and Issue common stock and other securities During 2006 we did not issue any equity securities other than the preferred Series C described above. During 2005 and 2004, we issued an aggregate of 363,700 shares and 18.4 million shares of common stock, respectively. During 2005, we formed four wholly owned trust subsidiaries for the purposes of issuing an aggregate of $96.3 million of trust preferred securities. We may also offer securities in exchange of property, invest in securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control and underwrite the securities of other issuers, although we have not done so in the past three years and have no present intention to do so. Historically, we have and intend to continue to distribute annual reports to our stockholders, including financial statements audited by independent auditors, describing our current business and strategy. 19 During 2006, we tightened our underwriting guidelines, which we believe significantly decreased our loan production and resulted in a change in the product concentration of our acquisitions and originations to primarily longer duration and higher credit quality loans.  ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS Some of the following risk factors relate to a discussion of our assets. For additional information on our asset categories refer to Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Note B Mortgages Held for Sale," "Note C Securitized Mortgage Collateral," "Note D Mortgages Held for Investment," and "Note E Allowance for Loan Losses" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related To Our Businesses We face risks related to our recent accounting restatements. On February 23, 2007, we reported that we had discovered accounting errors in previously reported Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Earnings. These errors related to the presentation of deferred charge as a non interest expense amount compared to the restated presentation as a component of income tax expense. We also reported restated amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows to eliminate certain non cash items related to intercompany transactions and the redesignation of loans from held for sale to held for investment. We present these corrections in the 2006 consolidated financial statements included in this report. Furthermore, on July 22, 2004, we publicly announced that we had discovered accounting inaccuracies in previously reported financial statements. As a result, following consultation with our auditors, we decided to restate our financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, the three and six months ended June 30, 2003, the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003 and for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. The restatements related to a correction to our revenue recognition policy with respect to the cash sales of mortgage servicing rights to unrelated third parties when the mortgage loans are retained, our accounting for derivatives and interest rate risk management activities, the accounting for loan purchase commitments as derivatives and selected elimination entries to consolidate IFC with that of IMH. We corrected a clerical error in the calculation of earnings per share for the six months ended June 30, 2004. The restatement of our financial statements could lead to litigation claims and or regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of managements attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. We also may have difficulty raising equity capital or obtaining other financing, such as lines of credit or otherwise. We may not be able to effectuate our current operating strategy, including the ability to originate, acquire or securitize mortgage loans for retention or sale at projected levels. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could cause current and potential shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, adversely affect the trading price of our securities or harm our operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our reputation or operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will be successful or that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we 20 are unable to adequately establish our internal control over financial reporting, our external auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Due to the reported material weakness in managements assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and the conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as of December 31, 2006, our external auditors issued an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the past, we have reported, and may discover in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or affect our ability to access the capital markets and could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the SEC. In addition, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may lead to deficiencies in the preparation of financial statements, could lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any such claims may cause the diversion of managements attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Such events could harm our business, affect our ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of our securities. If we are unable to generate sufficient liquidity we may be unable to conduct our operations as planned. If we cannot generate sufficient liquidity, we may be unable to continue to grow our operations, grow our asset base, maintain our current interest rate risk management policies and pay dividends. We have traditionally derived our liquidity from the following primary sources: financing facilities provided to us by others to acquire or originate mortgage assets; whole loan sales and securitizations of acquired or originated mortgages; our issuance of equity and debt securities; excess cash flow from our long term mortgage portfolio; and earnings from operations. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives will be available to us, or if available, that we will be able to negotiate favorable terms. Our ability to meet our long term liquidity requirements is subject to the renewal of our credit and repurchase facilities and or obtaining other sources of financing, including additional debt or equity from time to time. Any decision by our lenders and or investors to make additional funds available to us in the future will depend upon a number of factors, such as our compliance with the terms of our existing credit arrangements, our financial performance, industry and market trends in our various businesses, the lenders and or investors own resources and policies concerning loans and investments, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. If we cannot raise cash by selling debt or equity securities, we may be forced to sell our assets at unfavorable prices or discontinue various business activities. Our inability to access the capital markets could have a negative impact on our growth of taxable income and also our ability to pay dividends. Recently, the subprime sector of the mortgage industry has been experiencing difficulties with greater credit and mortgage losses resulting from a decline in real estate value and rising interest rates. As a result, certain subprime lenders have been unable to obtain further financing and may not be able to satisfy outstanding debt obligations. The decline in the subprime mortgage industry and the failure of subprime mortgage lenders may also effect the Alt A mortgage industry with increased delinquencies and the inability to obtain further financing. This may result in a reduction of our mortgage originations and acquisitions and reduce or eliminate the liquidity currently available to us to fund our operations. 21 Representations and warranties made by us in our loan sales and securitizations may subject us to liability. In connection with our loan sales to third parties and our securitizations, we transfer mortgages acquired and originated by us to the third parties or into a trust in exchange for cash and, in the case of a securitized mortgage, residual certificates issued by the trust. The trustee or purchaser will have recourse to us with respect to the breach of the standard representations and warranties made by us at the time such mortgages are transferred. While we may have recourse to our customers for any such breaches, there can be no assurance of our customers abilities to honor their respective obligations. Also, we engage in bulk whole loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally provide for recourse by the purchaser against us in the event of a breach of one of our representations or warranties, any fraud or misrepresentation during the mortgage origination process, or upon early default on such mortgage. We attempt to limit the potential remedies of such purchasers to the potential remedies we receive from the customers from whom we acquired or originated the mortgages. However, in some cases, the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgages from us may be broader or extend longer than those available to us against the sellers of the mortgages and should a purchaser enforce its remedies against us, we are not always able to enforce whatever remedies we have against our customers. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the sale or transfer of a loan, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the mortgage and the originator fails to repurchase the mortgage, then we may not be able to sell the mortgage or we may have to sell the mortgage at a discount. In the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to claims made against us by borrowers, purchasers of our loans, and trustees in our securitizations arising from, among other things, losses that are claimed to have been incurred as a result of alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations, misrepresentations, errors and omissions of our employees, officers and agents (including appraisers), incomplete documentation and our failure to comply with various laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any claims asserted against us may result in legal expenses or liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our use of second mortgages exposes us to greater credit risks. Our security interest in the property securing second mortgages is subordinated to the interest of the first mortgage holder and typically the second mortgages have a higher combined LTV ratio than do the first mortgages. If the borrower experiences difficulties in making senior lien payments or if the value of the property is equal to or less than the amount needed to repay the borrowers obligation to the first mortgage holder upon foreclosure, our second mortgage loan may not be repaid. Competition for mortgages is intense and may adversely affect our operations. We compete in acquiring and originating Alt A and commercial mortgages and issuing mortgage backed securities with other mortgage conduit programs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, thrift and loan associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, other lenders, and other entities purchasing mortgage assets. We also face intense competition from Internet based lending companies where entry barriers are relatively low. Some of our competitors are much larger than we are, have better name recognition than we do, and have far greater financial and other resources. Government sponsored entities, in particular Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are also expanding their participation in the Alt A mortgage industry. These government sponsored entities have a size and cost of funds advantage over us that allows them to price mortgages at lower rates than we are able to offer. This phenomenon may seriously destabilize the Alt A mortgage industry. In addition, if as a result of what may be less conservative, risk adjusted pricing, these government sponsored entities experience significantly higher than expected losses, it would likely adversely affect overall investor perception of the Alt A and subprime mortgage industry because the losses would be made public due to the reporting obligations of these entities. The intense competition in the Alt A, subprime and commercial mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current retail and wholesale structure and 22 information systems to compete effectively. Our inability to continue enhancing our current Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in this competitive environment creates a risk of price competition in the Alt A, subprime and Commercial mortgage industry. Competition in the industry can take many forms, including interest rates and costs of a loan, less stringent underwriting standards, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, amount and term of a loan and marketing and distribution channels. Our failure to maintain our customer service levels may affect our ability to effectively compete in the mortgage industry. Price competition would lower the interest rates that we are able to charge borrowers, which would lower our interest income and or our gain on sale of mortgage loans. Price cutting or discounting reduces profits and will depress earnings if sustained for any length of time. If our competition uses less stringent underwriting standards we will be pressured to do so as well, resulting in greater loan risk without being able to price for that greater risk. Our competitors may lower their underwriting standards to increase their market share. If we do not relax underwriting standards in the face of competition, we may lose market share. Increased competition may also reduce the volume of our loan originations and acquisitions. Any increase in these pricing and credit pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Any significant margin calls under our financing facilities would adversely affect our liquidity and may adversely affect our financial results. During periods of disruption in the financial markets, the mortgage industry may experience substantial turmoil as a result of a lack of liquidity in the secondary markets. At such times, investors may be unwilling to purchase interests in securitizations due, in part, to: the lack of financing to acquire these securitization interests; the narrowing of spread expected by institutional investors on securitization interests over the prevailing Treasury rate; and market uncertainty. As a result, during these periods, many mortgage originators, including us, may be unable to access the securitization market on favorable terms. This may result in some companies declaring bankruptcy. Some companies, like us, may be required to sell loans on a whole loan basis and liquidate holdings of mortgage backed securities to repay short term borrowings. However, the large amount of mortgages available for sale on a whole loan basis may create an oversupply and affect the pricing offered for these mortgages, which in turn may reduce the value of the collateral underlying the financing facilities. Therefore, many providers of financing facilities may initiate margin calls. Margin calls may result when our lenders evaluate the market value of the collateral securing our financing facilities and require us to provide them with additional equity or collateral to secure our borrowings. Our financing facilities are short term borrowings and in the event of a market disruption, many traditional providers of financing facilities may be unwilling to provide facilities on favorable terms, or at all. Our current financing facilities continue to be short term borrowings and we expect this to continue. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell, on a whole loan basis, the mortgages securing these facilities, which, depending upon market conditions may result in substantial losses. Some of our reverse repurchase agreements contain numerous representations, warranties and covenants, including requirements to maintain a certain minimum net worth, to maintain minimum equity ratios, to maintain our REIT status, and other customary debt covenants. Events of default under these facilities include material breaches of representations and warranties, failure to comply with covenants, material adverse effects upon or changes in our business, assets, or financial condition, and other customary matters. Events of default under certain of our facilities also include termination of our status as servicer with respect to certain securitized loan pools and failure to maintain profitability over consecutive quarters. If we were unable to make the necessary representations and warranties at the time we need financing or satisfy, or obtain waivers from, the continuing covenants, we would not have sufficient liquidity to fund our current operations. 23 Increased levels of early prepayments of mortgages may accelerate our amortization expenses and decrease our net interest income. Mortgage prepayments generally increase on our ARMs when fixed mortgage interest rates fall below the then current interest rates on outstanding ARMs or fully indexed ARMs. Prepayments on mortgages are also affected by the terms and credit grades of the mortgages, their interest rate reset date, conditions in the financial markets, housing appreciation and general economic conditions. If we acquire mortgages at a premium and they are subsequently prepaid, we must expense the unamortized premium at the time of the prepayment. We could possibly lose the opportunity to earn interest at a higher rate over the expected life of the mortgage. Also, if prepayments on mortgages increase when interest rates are declining, our net interest income may decrease if we cannot reinvest the prepayments in mortgage assets with comparable net interest margins. If prepayment rates differ from our projections, we may experience a change in net earnings due to a change in the ratio of derivatives to the related mortgages. This may result in a reduction of cash flows from our mortgage loans net of financing costs as we have a higher percentage of derivative costs related to these mortgages than originally projected. We generally acquire mortgages on a servicing released basis, meaning we acquire both the mortgages and the rights to service them. This strategy requires us to pay a higher purchase price or premium for the mortgages. If the mortgages that we acquire at a premium prepay faster than originally projected GAAP requires us to write down the remaining capitalized premium amounts at a faster speed than was originally projected, which would decrease our current net interest income. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results. Our operations, as a mortgage loan acquirer and originator, an investor in mortgage loans or a warehouse lender, may be adversely affected by rising and falling interest rates. Interest rates have been historically low over the past few years; however increases in interest rates may discourage potential borrowers from refinancing mortgages, borrowing to purchase homes or seeking second mortgages. For example, during 2006, the Federal Reserve Bank increased short term rates a total of 100 basis points. This has decreased the amount of mortgages available to be acquired or originated by our mortgage operations and has decreased the demand for repurchase financing provided by our warehouse lending operations, which adversely affects our operating results if we are not able to commensurately increase our market share. If short term interest rates exceed long term interest rates, there is a higher risk of increased loan prepayments, as borrowers may seek to refinance their fixed and adjustable rate mortgages at lower long term fixed interest rates. Increased loan prepayments could lead to a reduction in the number of mortgages in our long term mortgage portfolio and reduce our net interest income. Rising interest rates may also increase delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our adjustable rate mortgages. We are subject to the risk of rising mortgage interest rates between the time we commit to purchase mortgages at a fixed price through the issuance of individual, bulk or other rate locks and the time we sell or securitize those mortgages. An increase in interest rates will generally result in a decrease in the market value of mortgages that we have committed to purchase at a fixed price, but have not been sold or securitized. As a result, we may record a smaller gain, or even a loss, upon the sale or securitization of those mortgages. If we are unable to complete securitizations or if we experience delayed mortgage loan sales or securitization closings, we could face a liquidity shortage which would adversely affect our operating results. We rely significantly upon securitizations to generate cash proceeds to repay borrowings and replenish our borrowing capacity. If there is a delay in a securitization closing or any reduction in our ability to complete securitizations we may be required to utilize other sources of financing, which, if available at all, may not be on similar terms. In addition, delays in closing mortgage sales or securitizations of our mortgages increase our risk by exposing us to credit and interest rate risks for this extended period of time. Furthermore, gains on sales from certain of our securitizations represent a significant portion of the taxable income dividend to the REIT from our taxable REIT subsidiary, IFC. Several factors could affect our ability to complete securitizations of our mortgages, including: conditions in the securities and secondary markets; 24  credit quality of the mortgages acquired or originated through our mortgage operations; volume of our mortgage loan acquisitions and originations; our ability to obtain credit enhancements; and lack of investors purchasing higher risk components of the securities. If we are unable to sell a sufficient number of mortgages at a premium or profitably securitize a significant number of our mortgages in a particular financial reporting period, then we could experience lower net earnings or a loss for that period, which could have a material adverse affect on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to profitably securitize or sell our mortgages on a whole loan basis, or at all. The market for first loss risk securities, which are securities that take the first loss when mortgages are not paid by the borrowers, is generally limited. In connection with our REMIC securitizations, we may not sell all securities subjecting us to a first loss risk. If we do not sell these securities, we may hold them for an extended period, subjecting us to a first loss risk. A prolonged economic downturn or recession would likely result in a reduction of our mortgage origination activity which could adversely affect our financial results. The United States economy has undergone in the past and may in the future, undergo, a period of economic slowdown, which some observers view as a recession. An economic downturn or a recession may have a significant adverse impact on our operations and our financial condition. For example, a reduction in new mortgages may adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand our long term mortgage portfolio, our principal means of generating earnings. In addition, a decline in new mortgage activity may likely result in reduced activity for our warehouse lending operations and our long term investment operations. In the case of our mortgage operations, a decline in mortgage activity may result in fewer mortgages that meet its criteria for purchase and securitization or sale, thus resulting in a reduction in interest income and fees and gain on sale of mortgages. We may also experience larger than previously reported losses on our long term mortgage portfolio due to a higher level of defaults or foreclosures or higher loss rates on our mortgages. We may experience reduced net earnings or losses if our liabilities re price at different rates than our assets. Our principal source of revenue is net interest income or net interest spread from our long term mortgage portfolio, which is the difference between the interest we earn on our interest earning assets and the interest we pay on our interest bearing liabilities. The rates we pay on our borrowings are independent of the rates we earn on our assets and may be subject to more frequent periodic rate adjustments. Therefore, we could experience a decrease in net earnings or a loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase faster than the interest rates on our assets, if the increased borrowing costs are not offset by reduced cash payments on derivatives recorded in other non interest income. If our net interest spread becomes negative, we will be paying more interest on our borrowings than we will be earning on our assets and we will be exposed to a risk of loss. Additionally, the rates paid on our borrowings and the rates received on our assets may be based upon different indices. Our long term mortgage portfolio includes mortgages that are one , three and six month LIBOR and one year LIBOR hybrid ARMs. These are mortgages with fixed interest rates for an initial period of time, after which they begin bearing interest based upon short term interest rate indices and adjust periodically. We generally fund mortgages with adjustable interest rate borrowings having interest rates that are indexed to short term interest rates, typically one month LIBOR, and adjust periodically at various intervals. During 2006 and 2005, borrowing costs on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings, which are tied to one month LIBOR and reprice monthly without limitation, rose at a faster pace than coupons on LIBOR ARMs securing securitized mortgage borrowings, which generally reprice every six months with limitation. To the extent that there is an increase in the interest rate index used to determine our adjustable interest rate borrowings and it increases faster than the indices used to determine the rates on our assets (i.e., the increase is not offset by a corresponding increase in the rates at which interest accrues on our assets) or is not offset by various cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time, our net earnings will decrease or we will have net losses. 25 ARMs typically have interest rate caps, which limit interest rates charged to the borrower during any given period. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. As a result, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while the interest rates we earn on our ARMs would be capped. If this occurs, our net interest spread could be significantly reduced or we could suffer a net interest loss if not offset by a decrease in the cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time. Our operating results will be affected by the results of our interest rate risk management activities. To mitigate interest rate risks associated with our mortgage and long term investment operations, we enter into transactions designed to limit our exposure to interest rate risks. To mitigate the interest rate risks associated with adjustable rate borrowings, we attempt to match the interest rate sensitivities of our ARMs with the associated financing liabilities. Management determines the nature and quantity of derivative transactions based on various factors, including market conditions and the expected volume of mortgage acquisitions. While we believe that we properly manage our interest rate risk on an economic and tax basis, we have elected not to achieve hedge accounting, as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB," under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, or "SFAS 133," for our interest rate risk management activities in our financial statements. The effect of not applying hedge accounting means that our interest rate risk management activities may result in significant volatility in our quarterly net earnings as interest rates go up or down. It is possible that there will be periods during which we will incur losses on derivative transactions that may result in net losses, as was the case in 2001 after the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, and for the three months ended June 30, 2005, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, if the counter parties to our derivative transactions are unable to perform according to the terms of the contracts, we may incur losses. Our derivative transactions may not offset the risk of adverse changes in our net interest margins. To maintain REIT status, we must follow certain rules and meet certain tests. In doing so, our flexibility to manage our operations may be reduced. For instance: Because we must distribute the majority of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends, we have a limited amount of capital available to internally fund our growth. If we make frequent asset sales to persons deemed customers, we could be viewed as a "dealer," and thus subject to 100% prohibited transaction taxes or other entity level taxes on income from such transactions. Compliance with the REIT income and asset rules may limit the type or extent of hedging that we can undertake. Our ability to own non real estate related assets and earn non real estate related income is limited. Our ability to own equity interests in other entities is limited. If we fail to comply with these limits, we may be forced to liquidate assets on short notice on unfavorable terms to maintain our REIT status. The need to comply with the REIT gross income and asset tests may cause us to acquire assets that are qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT requirements that are not part of our overall business strategy and might not otherwise be the best investment alternative for us. Our ability to invest in taxable subsidiaries is limited under the REIT rules. Maintaining compliance with this limit could require us to constrain the growth of our taxable REIT subsidiaies in the future. Meeting minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements could reduce our liquidity. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Earning non cash REIT taxable income could necessitate our selling assets, incurring debt, or raising new equity in order to fund dividend distributions. In order to avoid the 100% prohibited transactions tax, which are transactions that are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we may choose not to engage 26 in certain sales of loans other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transaction even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. In addition, this prohibition may limit our ability to restructure our investment portfolio of mortgage related assets from time to time even if we believe that it would be in our best interest to do so. We may be subject to losses on mortgages for which we do not obtain credit enhancements. We do not obtain credit enhancements such as mortgage pool or special hazard insurance for all of our mortgages and investments. Generally, we require mortgage insurance on any mortgage with an LTV ratio greater than 80 percent. During the time we hold mortgages for investment, we are subject to risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. If a borrower defaults on a mortgage that we hold, we bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent there is any deficiency between the value of the related mortgaged property and the amount owing on the mortgage loan and any insurance proceeds available to us through the mortgage insurer. In addition, since defaulted mortgages, which under our financing arrangements are mortgages that are generally 60 to 90 days delinquent in payments, may be considered ineligible collateral under our borrowing arrangements, we could bear the risk of being required to own these mortgages without the use of borrowed funds until they are ultimately liquidated or possibly sold at a loss. Our mortgage products may expose us to greater credit risks. We are an acquirer and originator of Alt A mortgages and commercial loans. These are mortgages that generally may not qualify for purchase by government sponsored agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Our operations may be negatively affected due to our investments in these mortgages. Credit risks associated with these mortgages may be greater than those associated with conforming mortgages. The interest rates we charge on these mortgages are often higher than those charged for conforming loans in order to compensate for the higher risk and lower liquidity. Lower levels of liquidity may cause us to hold loans or other mortgage related assets supported by these loans that we otherwise would not hold. By doing this, we assume the potential risk of increased delinquency rates and or credit losses as well as interest rate risk. Additionally, the combination of different underwriting criteria and higher rates of interest leads to greater risk, including higher prepayment rates and higher delinquency rates and or credit losses. We also have interest only and option ARM loan programs that allow a borrower to pay only the stated interest or less than the stated interest, respectively, attributable to their loan for a set period of time. If there is a decline in real estate values borrowers may default on these types of loans since they have not reduced their principal balances, which, therefore, could exceed the value of their property. In addition, a reduction in property values would also cause an increase in the LTV ratio for that loan which could have the effect of reducing the value of that loan. There has been an increase in production of our loan product which is characterized as "interest only" and option ARM loans. There have been recent announcements by federal regulators concerning interest only loan programs, option ARM loan programs and other ARM loans with deeply discounted initial rates and or negative amortization features. There is increasing public policy debate focused on the rapid increase in the use of loans with interest only features that require no amortization of principal for a protracted period or loans with potential negative amortization features, such as option payment ARMs. Already one rating agency (Standard & Poors) has required greater credit enhancements for securitization pools that are backed by option ARMs. Although we are not including this product in our securitizations, these changes could make the product less available as financing options and hence this could have a material affect on the value of such products. Our commercial mortgages may expose us to increased lending risks. Generally, we consider commercial mortgages to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgages on one to four family, owner occupied residential properties. These mortgages have higher risks than mortgages secured by residential real estate because repayment of the mortgages often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Furthermore, commercial mortgages typically involve larger mortgage balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one to four family residential mortgages. 27 Lending to non conforming borrowers may expose us to a higher risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses. Our market includes borrowers who may be unable to obtain mortgage financing from conventional mortgage sources. Mortgages made to such borrowers generally entail a higher risk of delinquency and higher losses than mortgages made to borrowers who utilize conventional mortgage sources. Delinquency, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. The actual risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on mortgages made to our borrowers could be higher under current economic conditions than those in the past. Further, any material decline in real estate values increases the LTV ratios of mortgages previously made by us, thereby weakening collateral coverage and increasing the possibility of a loss in the event of a borrower default. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses after the mortgages are sold could adversely affect the pricing of our future loan sales and our ability to sell or securitize our mortgages in the future. In the past, certain of these factors have caused revenues and net earnings of many participants in the mortgage industry, including us, to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Concerns of current real estate value declining may affect our ability to sell or securitize mortgages. Our borrowings and use of substantial leverage may cause losses. Our use of securitized mortgages may expose our operations to credit losses. To grow our long term mortgage portfolio, we borrow a substantial portion of the market value of substantially all of our investments in mortgages in the form of securitized mortgages. There are no limitations on the amount of securitized mortgage borrowings we may incur, other than the aggregate value of the underlying mortgages. We currently use securitized mortgages as financing vehicles to increase our leverage since mortgages held for securitized mortgage collateral are retained for investment. Retaining mortgages as collateral for securitized mortgages exposes our operations to greater credit losses than does the use of other securitization techniques that are treated as sales because as the equity holder in the security, we are allocated losses from the liquidation of defaulted loans first, prior to any other security holder. Although our liability under a collateralized mortgage obligation is limited to the collateral used to create the collateralized mortgage obligation, we generally are required to make a cash equity investment to fund collateral in excess of the amount of the securities issued in order to obtain the appropriate credit ratings for the securities being sold, and therefore obtain the lowest interest rate available, on the securitized mortgages. If we experience greater credit losses than expected on the pool of loans subject to the securitized mortgage, the value of our equity investment will decrease and we may have to increase the allowance for loan losses on our financial statements. If we default under our financing facilities, we may be forced to liquidate collateral. If we default under our financing facilities, our lenders could force us to liquidate the collateral. If the value of the collateral is less than the amount borrowed, we could be required to pay the difference in cash. Furthermore, if we default under one facility, it would generally cause a default under our other facilities. If we were to declare bankruptcy, some of our reverse repurchase agreements may obtain special treatment and our creditors would then be allowed to liquidate the collateral without any delay. On the other hand, if a lender with whom we have a reverse repurchase agreement declares bankruptcy, we might experience difficulty repurchasing our collateral, or enforcing our claim for damages, and it is possible that our claim could be repudiated and we could be treated as an unsecured creditor. If this occurs, our claims would be subject to significant delay and we may receive substantially less than our actual damages or nothing at all. If we are forced to liquidate, we may have few unpledged assets for distribution to unsecured creditors. We have pledged a substantial portion of our assets to secure the repayment of securitized mortgage borrowings issued in securitizations and our financing facilities. We will also pledge substantially all of our current and future mortgages to secure borrowings pending their securitization or sale. The cash flows we receive from our investments that have not yet been distributed or pledged or used to acquire mortgages or other investments may be the only unpledged assets available to our unsecured creditors if we were liquidated. 28  The geographic concentration of our mortgages increases our exposure to risks in those areas. We do not set limitations on the percentage of our long term mortgage portfolio composed of properties located in any one area (whether by state, zip code or other geographic measure). Concentration in any one area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. A majority of our mortgage acquisitions and originations, long term mortgage portfolio and finance receivables are secured by properties in California and, to a lesser extent, Florida. Certain parts of California have experienced an economic downturn in past years and California and Florida have suffered the effects of certain natural hazards. Furthermore, if borrowers are not insured for natural disasters, which are typically not covered by standard hazard insurance policies, then they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. This would cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters. This would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. A reduction in the demand for our loan products may adversely affect our operations. The availability of sufficient mortgages meeting our criteria is dependent in part upon the size and level of activity in the residential real estate lending market and, in particular, the demand for residential mortgages, which is affected by: interest rates; national economic conditions; residential property values; and regulatory and tax developments. If our mortgage acquisitions and originations decline, we may have: decreased economies of scale; higher origination costs per loan; reduced fee income; smaller gains on the sale of mortgages; and an insufficient volume of mortgages to generate securitizations which thereby causes us to accumulate mortgages over a longer period. As a result of less favorable economic conditions and an increase in the number of borrower defaults and fraudulently obtained loans, we have tightened our mortgage loan lending and purchase requirements and the processes we undergo to document loans. There may be fewer borrowers and loans that qualify under these revised standards, and we may face increased competition from lenders and loan purchasers with less rigorous standards. As a result, our loan origination and purchase volumes may decline. A decline in our loan origination or purchase volumes would decrease the volume of assets available to us for sale or securitization, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits and may not prevail in these matters. Class action lawsuits and regulatory actions alleging improper marketing practices, abusive loan terms and fees, disclosure violations, improper yield spread premiums and other matters are risks faced by all mortgage originators, particularly those in the Alt A and subprime market. We are a defendant in purported class actions pending in different states. The class actions allege generally that the loan originator improperly charged fees in violation of various state lending or consumer protection laws in connection with mortgages that we acquired. Although the suits are not identical, they generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, punitive damages, 29 pre and post judgment interest, costs and expenses and rescission of the mortgages, as well as a return of any improperly collected fees. Since January 10, 2006, several purported class action complaints have been filed against us and our executive officers and certain directors. The complaints, which are brought on behalf of persons who acquired common stock during the period of May 13, 2005 through August 9, 2005, generally allege violations of the federal securities laws due to allegedly false and misleading statements or omissions, related to the Companys financial condition and future prospects. Since February 1, 2006 derivative shareholder actions have also been filed against certain of our officers and certain directors alleging breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, unjust enrichment and other related claims. We may incur defense costs and other expenses in connection with the class action lawsuits, and we cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of these or other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our managements efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matters. We believe we have meritorious defenses to the actions and intend to defend against them vigorously; however, an adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. A substantial interruption in our use of iDASLg2 may adversely affect our level of mortgage acquisitions and originations. We utilize the Internet in our business principally for the implementation of our automated mortgage origination program, iDASLg2. iDASLg2 allows our customers to pre qualify borrowers for various mortgage programs based on criteria requested from the borrower and renders an automated underwriting decision by issuing an approval of the mortgage loan or a referral for further review or additional information. Substantially all of our correspondents submit mortgages through iDASLg2 and all wholesale mortgages delivered by mortgage bankers and brokers are directly underwritten through the use of iDASLg2. iDASLg2 may be interrupted if the Internet experiences periods of poor performance, if our computer systems or the systems of our third party service providers contain defects, or if customers are reluctant to use or have inadequate connectivity to the Internet. Increased government regulation of the Internet could also adversely affect our use of the Internet in unanticipated ways and discourage our customers from using our services. If our ability to use the Internet in providing our services is impaired, our ability to originate or acquire mortgages on an automated basis could be delayed or reduced. Furthermore, we rely on a third party hosting company in connection with the use of iDASLg2. If the third party hosting company fails for any reason, and adequate back up is not implemented in a timely manner, it may delay and reduce those mortgage acquisitions and originations done through iDASLg2. Any substantial delay and reduction in our mortgage acquisitions and originations will reduce our taxable income for the applicable period. We are exposed to potential fraud and credit losses in providing repurchase financing. As a warehouse lender, we lend money to mortgage bankers on a secured basis and we are subject to the risks associated with lending to mortgage bankers, including the risks of fraud, borrower default and bankruptcy, any of which could result in credit losses for us. Fraud risk may include, but is not limited to, the financing of nonexistent loans or fictitious mortgage loan transactions or the delivery to us of fraudulent collateral that could result in the loss of all sums we have advanced to the borrower. For example, during 2004, the warehouse lending operations had a specific allowance for loan losses of $10.7 million for impaired repurchase advances. Also, our claims as a secured lender in a bankruptcy proceeding may be subject to adjustment and delay. Our delinquency ratios and our performance may be adversely affected by the performance of parties who service or sub service our mortgages. We sell or contract with third parties for the servicing of all mortgages, including those in our securitizations. Our operations are subject to risks associated with inadequate or untimely servicing. Poor performance by a 30 servicer may result in greater than expected delinquencies and losses on our mortgages. A substantial increase in our delinquency or foreclosure rate could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and secondary markets for our financing needs. Also, with respect to mortgages subject to a securitization, greater delinquencies would adversely impact the value of our equity interest, if any, we hold in connection with that securitization. In a securitization, relevant agreements permit us to be terminated as servicer or master servicer under specific conditions described in these agreements. If, as a result of a servicer or sub servicers failure to perform adequately, we were terminated as master servicer of a securitization, the value of any master servicing rights held by us would be adversely affected. We are exposed to environmental liabilities, with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure, that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and become subject to environmental or mold liabilities with respect to those properties. The laws and regulations related to mold or environmental contamination often impose liability without regard to responsibility for the contamination. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with mold or environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from mold or environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant mold or environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We are subject to risks of operational failure that are beyond our control. Substantially all of our operations are located in Irvine, California. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage and interruption from fire, flood, telecommunications failure, break ins, earthquake and similar events. Our operations may also be interrupted by power disruptions, including rolling black outs implemented in California due to power shortages. We do not have alternative power sources in all of our locations. Furthermore, our security mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent security breaches to our computer systems, including from computer viruses, electronic break ins and similar disruptions. Such security breaches or operational failures could expose us to liability, impair our operations, result in losses, and harm our reputation. A material difference between the assumptions used in the determination of the value of our residual interests and our actual experience would cause us to write down the value of these securities and could harm our financial position. Our REMIC securitizations, such as ISAC REMIC 2005 2, ISAC REMIC 2006 1, ISAC REMIC 2006 3, ISAC REMIC 2006 4, ISAC REMIC 2006 5, in some instances may be treated as a sale for tax purposes but treated as a secured borrowing for GAAP purposes and consolidated in the financial statements due to the retention of residual interests in the REMICs. The residual interest represents the remainder of the cash flows from the mortgage loans, including, in some instances, reinvestment income, over the amounts required to be distributed to regular interests. As of December 31, 2006, the tax basis value of our residual interests from securitization transactions was $223.8 million. Investments in residual interest and subordinated securities are much riskier than investments in senior mortgage backed securities because these subordinated securities bear all credit losses prior to the related senior securities. The risk associated with holding residual interest and subordinated securities is greater than holding the underlying mortgage loans directly due to the concentration of losses attributed to the subordinated securities. The value of residual interests represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by us from the excess cash flows created in the securitization transaction. In general, future cash flows are estimated by taking the coupon rate of the loans underlying the transaction less the interest rate paid to the investors, less contractually specified servicing and trustee fees, and after giving effect to estimated prepayments and credit losses. We estimate future cash flows from these securities and value them utilizing assumptions based in part on projected discount rates, delinquency, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and credit losses. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. Even if the general accuracy 31 of the valuation model is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships which drive the results of the model. Such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If our actual experience differs from our assumptions, we would be required to reduce the value of these securities. Furthermore, if our actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be harmed, including an adverse affect on the amount of dividend payments that are made on our common stock. Regulatory Risks Violation of various federal, state and local laws may result in losses on our loans. Applicable state and local laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges, require certain disclosure, and require licensing of the mortgage broker, lender and purchaser. In addition, other state and local laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of our loans. Mortgage loans are also subject to federal laws, including: the Federal Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated there under, which require certain disclosures to the borrowers regarding the terms of the loans; the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated there under, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or handicap, in housing related transactions; the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to the borrowers credit experience; the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act, which regulates credit reporting and use of credit information in making unsolicited offers of credit; the Gramm Leach Bliley Act, which imposes requirements on all lenders with respect to their collection and use of nonpublic financial information and requires them to maintain the security of that information; the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, which requires that consumers receive disclosures at various times and outlaws kickbacks that increase the cost of settlement services; the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, which requires the reporting of public loan data; the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Can Spam Act, which regulate commercial solicitations via telephone, fax, and the Internet; the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, which preempts certain state usury laws; and the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act of 1982, which preempts certain state lending laws which regulate alternative mortgage transactions. Violations of certain provisions of these federal and state laws may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal of or interest on the loans and in addition could subject us to damages and could result in the mortgagors rescinding the loans whether held by us or subsequent holders of the loans. In addition, such violations may cause us to be in default under our credit and repurchase facilities and could result in the loss of licenses held by us. Similarly, it is possible borrowers may assert that the loan forms we use or acquire, including forms for "interest only" and "option ARM" loans for which there is little standardization or uniformity, fail to properly 32 describe the transactions they intended, or that our forms fail to comply with applicable consumer protection statutes or other federal and state laws. This could result in liability for violations of certain provisions of federal and state consumer protection laws and our inability to sell the loans and our obligation to repurchase the loans or indemnify the purchasers. New regulatory laws affecting the mortgage industry may increase our costs and decrease our mortgage origination and acquisition. The regulatory environments in which we operate have an impact on the activities in which we may engage, how the activities may be carried out, and the profitability of those activities. Therefore, changes to laws, regulations or regulatory policies can affect whether and to what extent we are able to operate profitably. For example, recently enacted and proposed local, state and federal legislation targeted at predatory lending could have the unintended consequence of raising the cost or otherwise reducing the availability of mortgage credit for those potential borrowers with less than prime quality credit histories, thereby resulting in a reduction of otherwise legitimate Alt A or subprime lending opportunities. Similarly, recently enacted and proposed local, state and federal privacy laws and laws prohibiting or limiting marketing by telephone, facsimile, email and the Internet may limit our ability to market and our ability to access potential loan applicants. For example, the Can Spam Act of 2003 establishes the first national standards for the sending of commercial email allowing, among other things, unsolicited commercial email provided it contains certain information and an opt out mechanism. We cannot provide any assurance that the proposed laws, rules and regulations, or other similar laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future. Adoption of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business by substantially increasing the costs of compliance with a variety of inconsistent federal, state and local rules, or by restricting our ability to charge rates and fees adequate to compensate us for the risk associated with certain loans. Some states and local governments and the Federal government have enacted, or may enact, laws or regulations that prohibit inclusion of some provisions in mortgage loans that have mortgage rates or origination costs in excess of prescribed levels, and require that borrowers be given certain disclosures prior to the consummation of such mortgage loans. Our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the mortgage loans, whether held by us or subsequent holders. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against assignees of these loans for violations of state law. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a "net tangible benefit" to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based solely on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, could extend not only to us, but to our secured warehouse lenders, institutional loan purchasers, securitization trusts that hold our loans and other assignees, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. Furthermore, various federal and state laws impose significant privacy or customer information security obligations which may subject us to additional costs and legal risks and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such requirements. Similarly various state and federal laws have been enacted to restrict unsolicited advertising using telephones, facsimile machines and electronic means of transmission. These laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business by substantially increasing the costs of compliance or by subjecting us to lawsuits or compliance actions. In addition to changes to legal requirements contained in statutes, regulations, case law, and other sources of law, changes in the investigation or enforcement policies of federal and state regulatory agencies could impact the activities in which we may engage, how the activities may be carried out, and the profitability of those activities. For example, various state and federal agencies have initiated regulatory enforcement proceedings against mortgage companies for engaging in business practices that were not specifically or clearly proscribed by law, but which in the judgment of the regulatory agencies were unfair or deceptive to consumers. Federal and state regulatory agencies might also determine in the future that certain of our business practices not presently proscribed by any law and not the subject of previous enforcement actions are unfair or deceptive to consumers. If this happens, it could impact the activities in which we may engage, how we carry out those activities, and our profitability. We might also be required to pay fines, make reimbursements, and make other payments to third 33 parties for past business practices. Additionally, if an administrative enforcement proceeding were to result in us having to discontinue or alter certain business practices, then we might be placed at a competitive disadvantage vis &agrave; vis competitors who are not required to make comparable changes to their business practices. This competitive disadvantage could be most acute if the business practices that we are required to discontinue or change are not clearly proscribed by any federal or state law of general applicability. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers or correspondents. The mortgage brokers and correspondents from which we obtain mortgages have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders or an acquirer of the loan responsible for the legal violations of mortgage bankers and brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such liability. Previously, for example, the United States Federal Trade Commission, or "FTC," entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the "agent" of the lender; the FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as "principal," the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage brokers unfair and deceptive acts and practices. The United States Justice Department, various state attorney generals, and other state officials have sought to hold subprime mortgage lenders responsible for the pricing practices of their mortgage bankers and brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage banker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage bankers, brokers or correspondents. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to the Investment Company Act. We intend to conduct our business at all times so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. In order to qualify for this exemption we must maintain at least 55 percent of our assets directly in mortgages, qualifying pass through certificates and certain other qualifying interests in real estate. Our ownership of certain mortgage assets may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act, should we ever be subject to the Act. If the SEC adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exception, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. To insure that we continue to qualify for the exemption we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our mortgage assets and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher yielding mortgage assets. The net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income. If we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption. Regulation AB may create additional liabilities, costs and restrictions for our business. On December 15, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved the final regulations covering the registration, disclosure, communications, and reporting requirements for asset backed securities ("Regulation AB"), which became effective January 1, 2006. The new rules contain several new disclosure requirements, including requirements to provide historical financial data with respect to either prior securitized pools of the same asset class or prior originations and information with respect to the background, experience and roles of the various transaction parties, including those involved in the origination, sale or servicing of the loans in the securitized pool. Moreover, annual assessments of compliance with enhanced servicing criteria by servicers and attestation reports from an independent registered public accounting firm must be obtained with respect to securitized pools of our mortgage loans. Securitizations. Our failure to provide the information required by Regulation AB could subject us to Securities Act liability either directly or indirectly through the indemnification provisions of the transaction documents related to a securitization of our mortgage loans. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the new reporting requirements for asset backed securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may 34 result in the loss of eligibility to register our asset backed securities on Form S 3 which would increase the costs of and limit our access to the public asset backed securities market. Mortgage Loan Sales. As a result of the implementation of Regulation AB, our loan sale agreements with third parties may require us to provide certain information with respect to ourselves and historical information with respect to the performance of our mortgage loans to such purchasers. Our failure to provide this information with respect to any of our mortgage loan products may result in a breach of a contractual obligation for which we provide an indemnification. In addition, if we are not able to provide such information, the number of potential purchasers of our mortgage loans may be limited or the transaction sizes of sales of our mortgage loans may be limited, each of which may have an adverse effect on the price we receive for our mortgage loans. In the case of both securitizations and loan sales, compliance with Regulation AB will increase our cost of doing business as we are required to develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements. The federal banking agencies final guidance on nontraditional mortgage products may affect our ability to originate, buy or sell certai nontraditional mortgage loans. On October 4, 2006, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the National Credit Union Administration issued their final "Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks" (the "Guidance"). Nontraditional mortgage products are those which allow borrowers to defer payment of principal and sometimes interest. They include what are commonly referred to as "option ARM" loans and interest only loans. While we are not subject to regulation by these agencies or to the Guidance, it is possible the Guidance may have an adverse effect on our ability to buy, sell or securitize certain loans covered by the Guidance. However, some states regulatory agencies have and are adopting the guidance thereby making it applicable to us in certain circumstances. Further, this may also make it applicable to entities who sell loans to us or purchase loans from us. As a result, the Guidance may also negatively affect our loan origination volume and loan sales. It is also possible that the Guidance, or certain provisions within it, may be adopted as laws or used as guidance by federal, state or local agencies and that those laws or guidance may be applied to us. The Guidance addresses the portfolio risks and consumer protection issues that the federal agencies believe investors and lenders face when making or investing in nontraditional mortgage loans. As a matter of portfolio risk management, the Guidance warns applicable financial institutions that loan terms should be analyzed to ensure a manageable risk level, utilizing sound underwriting standards including an evaluation of factors that may compound the risk, such as reduced documentation programs and the use of second lien mortgages. The analysis of repayment ability "should avoid over reliance on credit scores as a substitute for income verification in the underwriting process" and should include an analysis of the borrowers ability to make the payment when it increases to include amortization of the loan. As a matter of consumer protection, financial institutions subject to the Guidance, when promoting or describing nontraditional mortgage products, are directed to ensure that they provide consumers with marketing materials and at application with information that is designed to help them make informed decisions when selecting and using these products. Lenders subject to the Guidance are instructed that the information they are to provide should apprise consumers of the risk that the monthly payment amounts could increase in the future, and explain the possibility of negative amortization. While not directly applicable to us in all cases, the Guidance may affect our ability to make, buy or sell the nontraditional loans covered by the Guidance. Further, the Guidance is instructive of the regulatory climate concerning those loans and has been and may be adopted in whole or part by other agencies that regulate us. The Guidance reports that the Conference of State Bank Supervisors ("CSBS") and the State Financial Regulators Roundtable ("SFRR") are committed to preparing a model guidance document for state regulators of non depository institutions such as us, which would be "similar in nature and scope" to the Guidance If we are required (either by a regulatory agency or by third party originators or investors) to make changes to our business practices to comply with the Guidance, it might affect the business activities in which we may engage and the profitability of those activities. Our business could be adversely affected if, as a result of the Guidance, 35 investors from which we purchase loans, or to whom we sell loans, change their business practices and policies relative to nontraditional mortgage products. For example, if entities from which we purchase loans are required to change their origination guidelines thereby affecting the volume, diversity, and quality of loans available for purchase by us, or if purchasers of mortgage loans are required to make changes to the purchasing policies, then our loan volume, ability to sell mortgage loans and profitability, could be adversely affected. There has been an increase in production of loan products which we characterize as "interest only" and "option ARM" loans. There is increasing public policy debate over loans with interest only features that require no amortization of principal for a protracted period and loans with potential negative amortization features, such as option payment ARMs. There is a risk that this debate will lead to the enactment of laws which limit our ability to continue producing these loan products at our present levels, or which augment the risks of legal liability that we face in connection with such loan products. Further, one rating agency has required greater credit enhancements for securitization pools that are backed by option ARMs. Actions such as this by rating agencies can impact the profitability of originating or dealing in these loan products. New regulatory actions affecting the mortgage industry may increase our costs and decrease our mortgage acquisition. In addition to changes to legal requirements contained in statutes, regulations, case law, and other sources of law, changes in the investigation or enforcement policies of federal and state regulatory agencies could impact the activities in which we may engage, how the activities may be carried out, and the profitability of those activities. For example, state and federal agencies have initiated regulatory enforcement proceedings against mortgage companies for engaging in business practices that were not specifically or clearly proscribed by law, but which in the judgment of the regulatory agencies were unfair or deceptive to consumers. For example, state attorneys general and other state officials representing various states entered into a Settlement Agreement with a large subprime mortgage company. The subject company agreed to pay a substantial amount in restitution to consumers and reimbursement to the states. The subject company also agreed to make changes to certain business practices, including the companys underwriting criteria and pricing policies. Many of the practices and policies are not specifically prohibited by any federal or state laws but were alleged to be deceptive or unfair to consumers. The terms of this Settlement Agreement do not apply directly to us; however, federal and state regulatory agencies and private parties might nevertheless expect mortgage companies including us, to make our business practices consistent with the provisions of the Agreement. If this happens, it could impact the activities in which we may engage, how we carry out those activities, our acquisition practices and our profitability. We might also be required to pay fines, make reimbursements, and make other payments to third parties for our business practices. Additionally, if an administrative enforcement proceeding were to result in us having to discontinue or alter certain business practices, then we might be placed at a competitive disadvantage vis &agrave; vis competitors who are not required to make comparable changes to their business practices. Risks Related To Our Status as a REIT We may not pay dividends to stockholders. REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code generally require that we annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90 percent of all of our taxable income, exclusive of the application of any tax loss carry forwards that may be used to offset current period taxable income. These provisions restrict our ability to retain earnings and thereby generate capital from our operating activities. We may decide at a future date to terminate our REIT status, which would cause us to be taxed at the corporate levels and cease paying regular dividends. In addition, for any year that we do not generate taxable income, we are not required to declare and pay dividends to maintain our REIT status. For instance, due to losses incurred in 2000, we did not declare any dividends from November 2000 until September 2001. To date, a portion of our taxable income and cash flow has been attributable to our receipt of dividend distributions from the mortgage operations. The mortgage operations is not a REIT and is not, therefore, subject to the above described REIT distribution requirements. Because the mortgage operations is seeking to retain earnings to fund the future growth of our mortgage operations business, IFCs board of directors, only comprised of executive officers of the Company, which is not the same as IMHs board of directors, may decide that the mortgage operations should cease making dividend distributions in the future. The IFC board of directors may be 36 changed at the discretion of the board of directors of IMH. This would materially reduce the amount of our taxable income and in turn, would reduce the amount we would be required to distribute as dividends. We may generate taxable income in excess of cash income, which may reduce our liquidity. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. If we fail to maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to taxation as a regular corporation. We believe that we have operated and intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to meet the requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that we qualify as a REIT. Moreover, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. We also may be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax. Unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. Therefore, if we lose our REIT status, the funds available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced substantially for each of the years involved. Failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect the value of our securities. On October 22, 2004, President Bush signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "2004 Act"), which, among other things, amends the rules applicable to REIT qualification. In particular, the 2004 Act provides that a REIT that fails the quarterly asset tests for one or more quarters will not lose its REIT status as a result of such failure if either (i) such failure is regarded as a de minimis failure under standards set out in the 2004 Act, or (ii) the failure is greater than a de minimis failure but is attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. In the case of a greater than de minimis failure, however, the REIT must pay a tax and must remedy the failure within 6 months of the close of the quarter in which such failure occurred. In addition, the 2004 Act provides relief for failures of other tests imposed as a condition of REIT qualification, as long as such failures are attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. A REIT would be required to pay a penalty of $50,000, however, in the case of each such failure. The above described changes apply for taxable years of REITs beginning after the date of enactment. Potential characterization of distributions or gain on sale as unrelated business taxable income to tax exempt investors. If (1) all or a portion of our assets are subject to the rules relating to taxable mortgage pools, (2) we are a "pension held REIT," (3) a tax exempt stockholder has incurred debt to purchase or hold our common stock, or (4) the residual REMIC interests we buy generate "excess inclusion income," then a portion of the distributions to and, in the case of a stockholder described in (3), gains realized on the sale of common stock by such tax exempt stockholder may be subject to Federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the Internal Revenue Code. 37  Classification as a taxable mortgage pool could subject us or certain of our stockholders to increased taxation. If we have borrowings with two or more maturities and, (1) those borrowings are secured by mortgages or mortgage backed securities and, (2) the payments made on the borrowings are related to the payments received on the underlying assets, then the borrowings and the pool of mortgages or mortgage backed securities to which such borrowings relate may be classified as a taxable mortgage pool under the Internal Revenue Code. If any part of our Company were to be treated as a taxable mortgage pool, then our REIT status would not be impaired, but a portion of the taxable income we recognize may, under regulations to be issued by the Treasury Department, be characterized as "excess inclusion" income and allocated among our stockholders to the extent of and generally in proportion to the distributions we make to each stockholder. Any excess inclusion income would: not be allowed to be offset by a stockholders net operating losses; be subject to a tax as unrelated business income if a stockholder were a tax exempt stockholder; be subject to the application of federal income tax withholding at the maximum rate (without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty) with respect to amounts allocable to foreign stockholders; and be taxable (at the highest corporate tax rate) to us, rather than to our stockholders, to the extent the excess inclusion income relates to stock held by disqualified organizations (generally, tax exempt companies not subject to tax on unrelated business income, including governmental organizations). Based on our analysis and advice of our tax counsel, we believe our existing financing arrangements do not create a taxable mortgage pool. We may be subject to possible adverse consequences as a result of limits on ownership of our shares. Our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single stockholder, including a corporation, to 9.5 percent of our outstanding shares unless waived by the board of directors. By subjecting entities, such as corporations, to the ownership limitation, our charter is more restrictive than the requirements of the federal tax laws applicable to REITs, and thereby serves the dual purpose of helping us maintain our REIT status and protecting us from an unwanted takeover. Our board of directors may increase the 9.5 percent ownership limit. In addition, to the extent consistent with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, our board of directors may, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, waive the 9.5 percent ownership limit for a stockholder or purchaser of our stock. In order to waive the 9.5 percent ownership limit our board of directors must require the stockholder requesting the waiver to provide certain representations to the Company to ensure compliance with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Our charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. This could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, owning more than 50 percent (by value) of our shares. If you or anyone else acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; may redeem the shares; and will consider the shares held in trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary as designated by us. 38 The trustee shall sell the shares held in trust and the owner of the excess shares will be entitled to the lesser of: (a)the price paid by the owner; (b)if the owner did not purchase the excess shares, the closing price for the shares on the national securities exchange on which IMH is listed on the day of the event causing the shares to be held in trust; or (c)the price received by the trustee from the sale of the shares. Notwithstanding the above, our charter contains a provision which provides that nothing in the charter will preclude the settlement of transactions entered into through the facilities of the NYSE. Limitations on acquisition and change in control ownership limit. Our charter and bylaws, and Maryland corporate law contain a number of provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our capital stock or otherwise be in their best interests by increasing the associated costs and timeframe necessary to make an acquisition, making the process for acquiring a sufficient number of shares of our capital stock to effectuate or accomplish such a change of control longer and more costly. In addition, investors may refrain from attempting to cause a change in control because of the difficulty associated with such a venture because of the limitations. Risks Related To Ownership of Our Securities Our share prices have been and may continue to be volatile. Historically and recently, the market price of our securities has been volatile. The market price of our securities is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors including: the amount of dividends paid; availability of liquidity in the securitization market; loan sale pricing; termination of financing agreements; margin calls by warehouse lenders or changes in warehouse lending rates; unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results; prepayments on mortgages; valuations of securitization related assets; the effect of the restatement of our financial condition and results of operations; mark to market adjustments related to the fair value of derivatives; cost of funds; and general market and mortgage industry conditions. During 2006, our common stock reached an intra day high sales price of $11.74 on July 12, and closed at the low sales price of $7.17 on February 13. As of March 9, 2007, our stock price closed at $5.31 per share. In addition, significant price and volume fluctuations in the stock market have particularly affected the market prices for the securities of mortgage companies such as ours. Furthermore, general conditions in the mortgage industry may adversely affect the market price of our securities. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and 39 may continue to adversely affect the market price of our securities. If our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could also be materially adversely affected and we may experience difficulty in raising capital. Sales of additional common or preferred stock may adversely affect its market price. To sustain our growth strategy we intend to raise capital through the sale of equity. The sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or preferred stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock or other outstanding securities. We do not know the actual or perceived effect of these offerings, the timing of these offerings, the potential dilution of the book value or earnings per share of our securities then outstanding and the effect on the market price of our securities then outstanding. For example, during 2006 the Company issued shares of preferred stock which resulted in net proceeds of approximately $1.7 million. We also have shares reserved for future issuance under our stock plans. The sale of a large amount of shares or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock or other outstanding securities.  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our primary executive and administrative offices are located at 19500 Jamboree, California where we have a premises lease expiring in November 2016 to use approximately 210,000 square feet of office space, as described below. We also executed premises leases located at 1401 Dove Street, Newport Beach, California for 74,000 square feet of office space, which expires May 2008. Also we have executed leases at 1500 Quail Street, Newport Beach, California expiring in September of 2008 to use approximately 15,000 square feet of office space and lease at 1301 Dove St., Newport Beach, California expiring in August of 2008 to use approximately 16,000 square feet of office space. In addition, the mortgage operations have mortgage production offices located in various states with premises lease terms ranging from month to month or one to two years. Jamboree Lease On March 4, 2005, we entered into a new lease for our business and corporate facilities. The lease was for a term of ten years and commenced in October 2006. We have two options to extend the term for five year periods for each option. The premises are located at 19500 Jamboree Road, Irvine, California. The premises consist of a seven story building containing approximately 210,000 square feet with an initial annual rental rate of $31.80 per square foot, which amount increases every 30 months. Quail and Dove Leases Subsequent to the Companys relocation to the Jamboree facilities, the Company exited the Quail and Dove locations and has recorded a $2.1 million expense included in non interest expenses for the fair value of the unused portions. The Company has entered into certain subleasing arrangements for portions of the Quail and Dove facilities.  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Mortgage related Litigation On June 27, 2000, a complaint captioned Michael P. and Shellie Gilmor v. Preferred Credit Corporation and Impac Funding Corporation, et al. was filed in the Circuit Court for Clay County, Missouri, as a purported class action lawsuit alleging that the defendants violated Missouris Second Loans Act and Merchandising Practices Act. In July 2001, the Missouri complaint was amended to include IMH and other Impac related entities. A plaintiffs 40 class was certified on January 2, 2003. On June 22, 2004, the court issued an order to stay all proceedings pending the outcome of an appeal in a similar case in the Eighth Circuit. On February 3, 2004, a complaint captioned James and Jill Baker v. Century Financial Group, Inc, et al was filed in the Circuit Court of Clay County, Missouri, as a purported class action lawsuit alleging that the defendants violated Missouris Second Loan Act and Merchandising Practices Act. On October 2, 2001, a complaint captioned Deborah Searcy, Shirley Walker, et al. v. Impac Funding Corporation, Impac Mortgage Holdings, Inc. et. al. was filed in the Wayne County Circuit Court, State of Michigan, as a purported class action lawsuit alleging that the defendants violated Michigans Secondary Mortgage Loan Act, Credit Reform Act and Consumer Protection Act. A motion to dismiss an amended complaint has been filed, but not yet ruled upon. On July 31, 2003, a purported class action complaint captioned Frazier, et al v. Impac Funding Corp., et al, was filed in federal court in Tennessee. The causes of action in the action allege violations of Tennessees usury statute and Consumer Protection Act. A motion to dismiss the complaint was filed and not yet ruled upon. The court agreed to administratively close the case on April 5, 2004 pending an appeal in a similar case. On April 29, 2004, the court issued its order administratively closing the case. On November 25, 2003, a complaint captioned Michael and Amber Stallings v. Empire Funding Home Loan Owner Trust 1997 3; U.S. Bank, National Association; and Wilmington Trust Company was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee, as a purported class action lawsuit alleging that the defendants violated Tennessee predatory lending laws governing second mortgage loans. The complaint further alleges that certain assignees of mortgage loans, including two Impac related trusts, should be included as defendants in the lawsuit. Like the Frazier matter this case was administratively closed on April 29, 2004 pending an appeal in a similar case. All of the above purported class action lawsuits are similar in nature in that they allege that the mortgage loan originators violated the respective states statutes by charging excessive fees and costs when making second mortgage loans on residential real estate. The complaints allege that IFC was a purchaser, and is a holder, along with other affiliated entities, of second mortgage loans originated by other lenders. The plaintiffs in the lawsuits are seeking damages that include disgorgement of interest paid, restitution, rescission, actual damages, statutory damages, exemplary damages, pre judgment interest and punitive damages. No specific dollar amount of damages is specified in the complaints. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the above claims and intend to defend these claims vigorously. Nevertheless, litigation is uncertain and we may not prevail in the lawsuits and can express no opinion as to its ultimate outcome. An adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse affect on us; however, no judgment in any matter is probable to occur nor is any amount of any loss from such judgment reasonably estimable at this time. Securities Litigation Beginning in January 2006, several purported class action complaints were filed in U.S. District Court, Central District of California, against IMH and its senior officers and all but one of its directors on behalf of persons who acquired IMHs common stock during the period of May 13, 2005 through August 9, 2005. On May 1, 2006, the court approved the consolidation of the federal securities class actions and appointed lead plaintiff and lead counsel. The consolidated complaint filed on July 24, 2006 alleges claims against all defendants for violations under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 10b 5 thereunder, and claims against the individual defendants for violations of Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. Plaintiffs claim that the defendants caused IMHs common stock to trade at artificially inflated prices through false and misleading statements related to the Companys financial condition and future prospects and that the individual defendants improperly sold holdings. The complaint seeks compensatory damages for all damages sustained as a result of the defendants actions, including interest, reasonable costs and expenses, and other relief as the court may deem just and proper. 41 Beginning in January 2006, several shareholder derivative actions were filed in the U.S. District Court, Central District of California and Orange County Superior Court against the Company and all of its senior officers and directors derivatively on behalf of nominal defendant IMH. On April 20, 2006, the Orange County Superior Court, and on June 7, 2006, the U.S. District Court, Central District of California, each approved the consolidation of the state and federal shareholder derivative actions and appointed lead plaintiffs and lead counsel, respectively. The consolidated complaints in the federal and state actions filed on August 8, 2006 and May 12, 2006, each allege claims for breach of fiduciary duty, for insider trading, misappropriation of information and unjust enrichment. The state consolidated complaint also alleges abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, and violation of California Corporations Code related to false and misleading statements regarding the Companys business and future prospects. Both federal and state derivative actions seek, in favor of the Company, a constructive trust for the stock proceeds; equitable and injunctive relief; disgorgement of all profits, benefits and other compensation obtained by defendants; costs and disbursements of the action including attorneys, accountants and experts fees; and further relief as the court deems just and proper. The Federal derivative action is also seeking an amount equal to three times the difference between prices at which stock was sold and the market value at which shares would have been sold had the alleged non public information been publicly disseminated and exemplary damages. On September 14, 2006, the Orange County Superior Court stayed the consolidated state shareholder derivative action pending resolution of the federal shareholder derivative action. On December 11, 2006, the U.S. District Court granted the defendants motion to dismiss the complaint, but gave the plaintiffs leave to file an amended complaint. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the above claims and intend to defend these claims vigorously. Nevertheless, litigation is uncertain and we may not prevail in the lawsuits and can express no opinion as to their ultimate resolution. An adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. Other Litigation We are a party to other litigation and claims which are normal in the course of our operations. While the results of such other litigation and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to the security holders to be voted on during the fourth quarter of 2006.  PART II  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol "IMH." The following table summarizes the high, low and closing sales prices for our common stock for the periods indicated: 2006 2005 High Low Close High Low Close First Quarter $ 10.27 $ 7.17 $ 9.64 $ 23.49 $ 16.00 $ 19.18 Second Quarter 11.70 8.60 11.18 22.32 15.60 18.65 Third Quarter 11.74 8.50 9.37 19.11 11.15 12.26 Fourth Quarter 9.99 8.65 8.80 12.49 9.00 9.41 On March 9, 2007, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the NYSE was $5.31 per share. As of March 9, 2007, there were 547 holders of record, including holders who are nominees for an undetermined number of beneficial owners, of our common stock. 42 Common Stock Dividend Distributions. To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we intend to make annual distributions to stockholders at an amount that maintains our REIT status in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code, which may not necessarily equal net earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP. Our dividend policy is subject to revision at the discretion of the board of directors. All distributions in excess of those required to maintain our REIT status will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our taxable income, financial condition and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. The board of directors has not established a minimum distribution level. Distributions to stockholders will generally be taxable as ordinary income or qualified income, which is subject to a 15 percent tax rate, although a portion of such distributions may be designated by us as a capital gain or may constitute a tax free return of capital. We annually furnish to each of our stockholders a statement setting forth distributions paid during the preceding year and their characterization as ordinary income, qualified income, capital gain or return of capital. The following table presents our common stock dividend record dates and per share dividend amounts for the quarters indicated: Quarter Ended Stockholder Record Date Per Share Dividend Amount March 31, 2005 April 8, 2005 $ 0.75 June 30, 2005 July 8, 2005 0.75 September 30, 2005 October 7, 2005 0.45 December 31, 2005 January 17, 2006 0.20 March 31, 2006 April 7, 2006 0.25 June 30, 2006 July 7, 2006 0.25 September 30, 2006 October 6, 2006 0.25 December 31, 2006 January 16, 2007 0.25 Repurchases of Common Stock. On October 13, 2005 and September 15, 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the Company to repurchase up to 5 million shares of the Companys outstanding common stock. During 2006 the Company repurchased 104,300 shares of the Companys common stock through this program. No shares were repurchased during the fourth quarter of 2006. There is no expiration date specified for the program. The shares that are repurchased are cancelled. 43   ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated statements of operations data for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2006 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of the year end for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2006 were derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. Such selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial statements starting on page F 1 and with Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." IMPAC MORTGAGE HOLDINGS, INC. (amounts in thousands, except per share data) For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 (1) 2002 restated restated restated restated Statement of Operations Data: Net interest income: Interest income $ 1,276,713 $ 1,251,960 $ 755,616 $ 385,716 $ 230,267 Interest expense 1,311,405 1,047,209 412,533 209,009 127,801 Net interest income (expense) (34,692 ) 204,751 343,083 176,707 102,466 Provision for loan losses 47,326 30,563 30,927 24,853 19,848 Net interest income (expense)after provision for loan losses (82,018 ) 174,188 312,156 151,854 82,618 Non interest income: Gain on sale of loans 1,805 39,509 24,729 37,523 Other income 27,003 13,770 11,666 12,329 1,671 Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments 204,435 22,595 (91,881 ) (47,847 ) (28,361 ) Change in fair value of derivative instruments (113,017 ) 144,932 96,575 31,826 (22,141 ) Equity in net earnings of IFC 11,537 11,299 Total non interest income (expense) 120,226 220,806 41,089 45,368 (37,532 ) Non interest expense: Personnel expense 65,082 77,508 60,420 25,250 1,856 Other expense 30,389 24,321 15,329 11,072 1,898 General and administrative and other expense 19,867 25,384 17,097 7,660 985 Total non interest expense 115,338 127,213 92,846 43,982 4,739 (Loss) Earnings before income taxes (77,130 ) 267,781 260,399 153,240 40,347 Income tax (benefit) expense (1,857 ) (2,477 ) 2,762 4,261 Net (loss) earnings $ (75,273 ) $ 270,258 $ 257,637 $ 148,979 $ 40,347 Net (loss) earnings per share: Basic $ (1.18 ) $ 3.38 $ 3.79 $ 2.94 $ 1.01 Diluted $ (1.18 ) $ 3.35 $ 3.72 $ 2.88 $ 0.99 Dividends declared per share $ 0.95 $ 1.95 $ 2.90 $ 2.05 $ 1.76 44 As of December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 (1) 2002 Balance Sheet Data: Securitized mortgage collateral and mortgages held for investment $ 21,052,709 $ 24,654,360 $ 21,895,592 $ 9,296,893 $ 5,215,731 Finance receivables 306,294 350,217 471,820 630,030 664,021 Mortgages held for sale 1,561,919 2,052,694 587,745 397,618 Investments in and advances to IFC (1) 531,032 Total assets 23,598,955 27,720,379 23,815,767 10,577,957 6,540,339 Securitized mortgage borrowings 20,526,369 23,990,430 21,206,373 8,489,853 5,019,934 Reverse repurchase agreements 1,880,395 2,430,075 1,527,558 1,568,807 1,168,029 Total liabilities 22,589,425 26,553,432 22,771,692 10,105,170 6,256,814 Total stockholders equity 1,009,530 1,166,947 1,044,075 472,787 283,525 (1)On July 1, 2003, IMH purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of common stock of IFC. The purchase of IFCs common stock combined with IMHs ownership of 100 percent of IFCs preferred stock resulted in the consolidation of IFC from July 1, 2003 through December 31, 2003. Prior to July 1, 2003, IFC was a non consolidated subsidiary of IMH and 99 percent of the net earnings of IFC were reflected in IMHs financial statements as "Equity in net earnings of IFC." 45   ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contain certain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Refer to Item 1. "Business Forward Looking Statements" for a complete description of forward looking statements. All of our businesses actively work together to deliver comprehensive mortgage and lending services to our correspondents, mortgage bankers and brokers, retail customers and capital market investors through a wide array of mortgage loan programs using web based technology and centralized operations so that we can provide high levels of customer service at low per loan operating costs. We elect to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, which generally allows us to pass through income to stockholders without payment of federal income tax at the corporate level. Our goal is to generate consistent and reliable income for distribution to our stockholders primarily from the earnings of our core operating businesses, which include the long term investment operations, mortgage operations, commercial operations, and warehouse lending operations. Refer to Item 1. "Business" for additional information on our businesses and operating segments. Summary of 2006 Financial and Operating Results Net (Loss) Earnings of $(75.3) million for 2006 Compared to $270.3 million for 2005. Estimated taxable income per diluted common share was $1.05 for 2006 as compared to actual taxable income per diluted common share of $1.87 for 2005. See the "Estimated Taxable Income available to IMH Common Stockholders" table for the calculation of estimated taxable income. Cash dividends paid during 2006 were $0.95 per common share as compared to $1.95 per common share for 2005. Total assets as of December 31, 2006 were $23.6 billion compared to $27.7 billion as of December 31, 2005. Book value per common share was $11.15 as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $13.24 as of prior year end. The mortgage operations acquired or originated approximately $11.6 billion of primarily non conforming Alt A mortgages during 2006, as compared to $22.3 billion for 2005. The commercial operations originated approximately $983.4 million of commercial and multifamily loans during 2006, as compared to $798.5 million acquired or originated by the REIT in 2005. The long term investment operations retained approximately $5.3 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and $526.6 million commercial mortgages compared to $12.2 billion and $798.5 million, respectively, for 2005. Restated Consolidated Financial Statements for 2005 and 2004 Certain amounts in the 2005 and 2004 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows have been restated to properly reflect specific intercompany activities related to cash receipts from loan sales and cash disbursements for loan purchases between consolidated companies. Such intercompany loan sale and purchase transaction activities had the effect of presenting separate cash inflows and outflows even though there was no cash inflow or outflow on a consolidated basis. This restatement serves to eliminate this intercompany activity from its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and present them as non cash transactions. The correction of the error increases cash used in operating activities and increases cash provided by investing activities. The restatement of these transactions does not change total cash and cash equivalents as reported for December 31, 2005 and 2004. Furthermore, the restatement has no effect on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Earnings, Consolidated Balance Sheets or Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity. 46 In addition, certain amounts within the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Earnings have been restated to reflect the "Amortization of deferred charge" for 2005 and 2004 as income tax expense (benefit) rather than non interest expense. The "Amortization of deferred charge" relates to income taxes on intercompany gains and this correction is believed to more appropriately reflect the overall income tax charges or benefits during 2005 and 2004. The restatement of this information does not change net earnings as reported for December 31, 2005 and 2004. Furthermore, the restatement has no effect on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as reported. Critical Accounting Policies We define critical accounting policies as those that are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require estimates and assumptions based on our judgment of changing market conditions and the performance of our assets and liabilities at any given time. In determining which accounting policies meet this definition, we considered our policies with respect to the valuation of our assets and liabilities and estimates and assumptions used in determining those valuations. We believe the most critical accounting issues that require the most complex and difficult judgments and that are particularly susceptible to significant change to our financial condition and results of operations include the following: allowance for loan losses; derivative financial instruments; securitization of financial assets as financing versus sale; calculation of repurchase reserve; and, amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs; Allowance for Loan Losses We provide an allowance for loan losses for mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral, finance receivables and mortgages held for investment ("loans provided for"). In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, management takes several items into consideration. For instance, a detailed analysis of historical loan performance data is accumulated and reviewed. This data is analyzed for loss performance and prepayment performance by product type, origination year and securitization issuance. The results of that analysis are then applied to the current mortgage portfolio and an estimate is created. We believe that pooling of mortgages with similar characteristics is an appropriate methodology in which to evaluate the allowance for loan losses. Management also recognizes that there are qualitative factors that must be taken into consideration when evaluating and measuring inherent loss in our loan portfolios. These items include, but are not limited to, economic indicators that may affect the borrowers ability to pay, changes in value of collateral, projected loss curves, political factors and industry statistics. Specific valuation allowances may be established for loans that are deemed impaired, if default by the borrower is deemed probable, and if the fair value of the loan or the collateral is estimated to be less than the gross carrying value of the loan. Actual losses on loans are recorded as a reduction to the allowance through charge offs. Derivative Financial Instruments Rate Lock and Purchase Commitments We enter into commitments to make loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is set prior to funding (rate lock commitments). We also enter into commitments to purchase mortgage loans through our correspondent channel (purchase commitments). Rate lock commitments on mortgage loans that are intended to be sold are considered to be derivatives. In addition, purchase commitments for mortgage loans that are intended to be sold and those that will be held for investment purposes can qualify as derivatives. Both types of commitments to purchase loans are evaluated under the definition of a derivative to determine whether SFAS 133 is applicable. Rate lock and purchase commitments (together "loan commitments") that are considered to be derivatives are recorded 47 at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair value recorded in change in fair value of derivative instruments in the consolidated statements of operations. Unlike most other derivative instruments, there is no active market for the loan commitments that can be used to determine their fair value. Consequently, the Company has developed a method for estimating the fair value of the Companys loan commitments that are considered to be derivatives. The fair value of the loan commitments are determined by calculating the change in market value from the point of commitment date to the measurement date based upon changes in interest rates during the period, and adjusted for an anticipated fallout factor for loan commitments that are not expected to fund. Under this fair value methodology, the loan commitment has zero value on day one and all future value is the result of changes in interest rates, exclusive of any inherent servicing value. Subsequent to the April 1, 2004 issuance of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105 "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments," (SAB 105), when measuring the fair value of interest rate lock commitments, the amount of the expected servicing rights is not included in the valuation. Forward Sale Commitments The policy of recognizing the fair value of the rate lock commitments has the effect of recognizing a gain or loss on the related mortgage loans based on changes in the interest rate environment before the mortgage loans are funded and sold. As such, rate lock commitments expose us to interest rate risk. We mitigate such risk by entering into forward sale commitments, such as mandatory commitments on U.S. Treasury bonds and mortgage backed securities, call options, put options, and whole loan sale commitments. These forward sale commitments are treated as derivatives under SFAS No. 133 with the change in fair value of the derivative instruments reported as such in the consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the Companys forward sale commitments are generally based on market prices provided by dealers, which make markets in these financial instruments. Interest Rate Swaps, Caps, and Floors The Companys primary objective is to limit the exposure to the variability in future cash flows attributable to the variability of one month LIBOR, which is the underlying index of adjustable rate securitized mortgage and short term borrowings under reverse repurchase agreements. The Company also monitors on an ongoing basis the prepayment risks that arise in fluctuating interest rate environments. The Companys interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset the potential adverse effects of changing interest rates on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings. To mitigate exposure to the effect of changing interest rates on cash flows on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings, the Company purchases derivative instruments primarily in the form of interest rate swap agreements (swaps) and, to a lesser extent, interest rate cap agreements (caps) and interest rate floor agreements (floors). The swaps, caps and floors are treated as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS 133, with changes in fair value of derivative instruments reported as such in the consolidated statements of operations. Cash paid or received on swaps, caps and floors is recorded as a current period expense or income as realized gain (loss) on derivative instruments in the consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of the Companys interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other derivative transactions are generally based on market prices provided by dealers, which make markets in these financial instruments. Securitization of Financial Assets as Financing versus Sale Securitizations that are structured as sales provide a onetime contribution to our income or a gain on sale when the mortgage loans are sold to third parties using a securitization trust. We refer to these transactions as "un consolidated" securitizations. We determine the gain on sale by allocating the carrying value of the underlying mortgage loans between loans sold and the interests retained, based on relative fair values. The gain recognized is the difference between the net proceeds of the securitization and the allocated carrying value of the loans sold. Net proceeds consist of cash and any other assets obtained, less any liabilities incurred. Our estimate of the fair value of our net retained interests in these securitizations requires us to exercise significant judgment as to the timing and amount of future cash flows from the retained interests. We are exposed to credit risk from the underlying mortgage 48 loans in un consolidated securitizations to the extent we retain subordinated interests. Changes in expected cash flows resulting from changes in expected net credit losses will impact the value of our subordinated retained interests and those changes are recorded as a component of investment gain or loss. In contrast, for securitizations that are structured as financings, we recognize interest income over the life of the mortgage loans held for investment and interest expense incurred for the borrowings. We refer to these transactions as consolidated securitizations. The mortgage loans collateralizing the debt securities for these financings are included in mortgage loans held for investment and the debt securities payable to investors in these securitizations are included in collateralized borrowings in securitization trusts on our balance sheet. Our recorded liability to repay these borrowings will be reduced to the extent cash flows received from the securitized and pledged assets are less than the recorded liabilities due. We provide for credit losses for the mortgage loans held for investment as they are incurred by establishing or increasing an allowance for loan loss. Whether a securitization is consolidated or un consolidated, investors in the securities issued by the securitization trust have no recourse to our assets or to us and have no ability to require us to repurchase their securities, but rather have recourse only to the assets transferred to the trust. Whereas the accounting differences are significant, the underlying economic impact to us, over time, will be the same whether the securitization is structured consolidated or un consolidated. The mortgage operations recognize gains or losses on the sale of mortgages when the sales transaction settles or upon the securitization of the mortgages when the risks of ownership have passed to the purchasing party. Gains and losses may be increased or decreased by the amount of any servicing related premiums received and costs associated with the acquisition or origination of mortgages. A transfer of financial assets in which control is surrendered is accounted for as a sale to the extent that consideration other than a beneficial interest in the transferred assets is received in the exchange. The long term investment operations structure securitized mortgage securitizations as financing arrangements and recognize no gain or loss on the transfer of mortgage assets. The securitized mortgage securitization trusts do not meet criteria within SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities" (SFAS 140), to be qualifying special purpose entities, and further, are considered variable interest entities under FASB Interpretation No. 46R (FIN 46R) and, therefore, are consolidated by the long term investment operations as the entities primary beneficiary. The mortgage operations generally structure REMIC securitizations as sales and gains and losses are recognized. REMICs which do not meet the sale criteria within SFAS 140 are accounted for as secured borrowing transactions and consolidated under FIN46R to the extent the Company holds a residual interest and thus considered the primary beneficiary. Liabilities and derivatives incurred or obtained at the transfer of financial assets are required to be measured at fair value, if practicable. Also, servicing assets and other retained interests in the transferred assets must be measured by allocating the previous carrying value between the asset sold and the interest retained, if any, based on their relative fair values at the date of transfer. To determine the value of the securities and retained interest, management uses certain analytics and data to estimate future rates of prepayments, prepayment penalties to be received, delinquencies, defaults and default loss severity and their impact on estimated cash flows. Calculation of Repurchase Reserve When we sell loans through whole loan sales we are required to make customary representations and warranties about the loans to the purchaser. Our whole loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase loans if we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser. In addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or if a payment default occurs on a mortgage loan shortly after its origination. Investors have requested the Company to repurchase loans or to indemnify them against losses on certain loans which the investors believe do not comply with applicable representations or warranties. Upon completion of its own investigation regarding the investor claims, the Company generally repurchases or provides indemnification on certain loans, as appropriate. The Company maintains a liability for expected losses on dispositions of loans expected to be repurchased or on which indemnification is expected to be provided and regularly evaluates the adequacy of this repurchase liability based on trends in repurchase and indemnification requests, actual loss experience, and other relevant factors including economic conditions. 49 The Company calculates the repurchase reserve based on the trailing whole loan sales that still have outstanding standard representations and warranties. The Company applies a historical loss rate to these loans to derive the repurchase reserve. The reserve includes the Companys estimate of losses in the fair value of loans the Company expects it will repurchase. The loss in fair value is predominately determined based on historical LOCOM losses on repurchased loans. During 2006 all of the Companys LOCOM losses which totaled $34.0 million were primarily related to the change in fair value of repurchased loans. The Companys repurchase reserve has increased from the prior year as a result of an increase in the expected loss rate due to increases in foreclosures. This increase was partially offset by decreases in the whole loan sales volume which decreased to $6.3 billion during 2006 compared to $8.1 billion during 2005. Amortization of Loan Premiums and Securitization Costs In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 91, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases" ("SFAS 91"), we amortize the mortgage premiums, securitization costs, bond discounts, and deferred gains/losses to interest income over the estimated lives of the mortgages as an adjustment to yield of the mortgages. Amortization calculations include certain loan information including the interest rate, loan maturity, principal balance and certain assumptions including expected prepayment rates. We estimate prepayments on a collateral specific basis and consider actual prepayment activity for the collateral pool. We also consider the current interest rate environment and the forward market curve projections. Taxable Income Estimated taxable income available to common stockholders was $79.5 million, or $1.05 per diluted common share, for 2006 as compared to $142.9 million, or $1.87 for 2005 and $202.9 million, or $2.97 for 2004. To maintain our REIT status, we are required to distribute a minimum of 90 percent of our annual taxable income to our stockholders. Because we pay dividends based on taxable income, dividends may be more or less than net earnings (loss). As such, we believe that the disclosure of estimated taxable income available to common stockholders, which is a non generally accepted accounting principle, or "GAAP," financial measurement, is useful information for our investors. We paid total cash dividends of $0.95 per common share during 2006, $1.95 during 2005 and $2.90 during 2004, which, when combined with available tax loss carry forwards met taxable income distribution requirements for each year. Distributions to stockholders will generally be taxable as ordinary or qualified dividends, although such distributions may be designated as capital gains or a tax free return of capital. Under the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Act of 2003, a portion of the total common stock cash dividends paid to our stockholders during 2005 and 2006 were the result of dividends paid from IFC to IMH which will be taxed as qualifying dividends. IMH annually furnishes to each of its stockholders a statement setting forth the tax characteristics of the dividends. The 2006 dividend distribution characteristics are 91.5 percent and 8.5 percent as ordinary income and qualifying dividends, respectively. Upon the filing of our 2005 tax return, the REIT had a federal net operating tax loss carry forward of $8.2 million, which expires in the year 2020 and which may or may not be used to offset taxable income in 2006 or in subsequent years. We expect to file our 2006 federal and state tax returns in September 2007 at which time changes to federal net operating loss carry forwards, if any, will be determined. 50 Year ended 2006 vs. Year ended 2005 Estimated Taxable Income available to IMH Common Stockholders Estimated taxable income available to IMH common stockholders excludes net earnings from IFC and its subsidiaries and the elimination of intercompany loan sale transactions. The following schedule reconciles net earnings to estimated taxable income available to common stockholders of the REIT. For the year ended December 31, 2006 (1) 2005 2004 Net (loss) earnings $ (75,273 ) $ 270,258 $ 257,637 Adjustments to net (loss) earnings: (2) Loan loss provision (3) 43,054 30,563 30,927 Tax deduction for actual loan losses (3) (27,157 ) (16,004 ) (16,252 ) GAAP earnings on REMICs (4) (16,822 ) Taxable income on REMICs (4) 34,297 Change in fair value of derivatives (5) 114,490 (155,695 ) (103,724 ) Dividends on preferred stock (14,698 ) (14,530 ) (3,750 ) Net loss (earnings) of taxable REIT subsidiaries (6) 25,994 (14,968 ) (42,944 ) Dividend from taxable REIT subsidiaries (7) 7,400 32,850 37,000 Elimination of inter company loan sales transactions (8) (11,913 ) 10,429 44,048 Net miscellaneous adjustments 166 Estimated taxable income available to common stockholders (9) $ 79,538 $ 142,903 $ 202,942 Estimated taxable income per diluted common share (9) $ 1.05 $ 1.87 $ 2.97 Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 76,110 76,277 68,244 (1)Estimated taxable income includes estimates of book to tax adjustments which can differ from actual taxable income as calculated when we file our annual corporate tax return. Since estimated taxable income is a non GAAP financial measurement, the reconciliation of estimated taxable income available to common stockholders to net (loss) earnings is intended to meet the requirements of Regulation G as promulgated by the SEC for the presentation of non GAAP financial measurements. To maintain our REIT status, we are required to distribute a minimum of 90 percent of our annual taxable income to our stockholders. (2)Certain adjustments are made to net (loss) earnings in order to calculate taxable income due to differences in the way revenues and expenses are recognized under the two methods. (3)To calculate estimated taxable income, actual loan losses are deducted. For the calculation of net earnings, GAAP requires a deduction for estimated losses inherent in our mortgage portfolios in the form of a provision for loan losses, which are not deductible for tax purposes. Therefore, as the estimated losses provided for under GAAP are actually realized, the losses will negatively and may materially effect future taxable income. (4)Includes GAAP to tax differences related to the ISAC REMIC 2005 2, ISAC REMIC 2006 1, ISAC REMIC 2006 3, ISAC REMIC 2006 4, and ISAC REMIC 2006 5 securitizations, which were treated as secured borrowings for GAAP purposes and sales for tax purposes. The REMIC GAAP income excludes the provision for loan losses recorded that may relate to the REMIC collateral included in securitized mortgage collateral. The Company does not have any specific valuation allowances recorded as an offset to the REMIC collateral. (5)The mark to market change for the valuation of derivatives at IMH is income or expense for GAAP financial reporting purposes but is not included as an addition or deduction for taxable income calculations until realized. (6)Represents net (loss) earnings of IFC and ICCC, our taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRS), which may not necessarily equal taxable income. Starting January 1, 2006, the Company elected to convert ICCC from a qualified REIT subsidiary to a TRS. (7)Any dividends paid to IMH by the TRS in excess of their cumulative undistributed earnings and profits taxable income minus taxes paid would be recognized as a return of capital by IMH to the extent of IMHs capital investment in the TRS. Distributions from the TRS to IMH may not equal the TRS net earnings, however, IMH can only recognize dividend distributions received from the TRS as taxable income to the extent that the TRS 51 distributions are from current or prior period undistributed earnings and profits taxable income minus taxes paid. Any distributions by the TRS in excess of IMHs capital investment in the TRS would be taxed as capital gains. (8)Includes the effects to taxable income associated with the elimination of gains from inter company loan sales and other inter company transactions between IFC, ICCC, and IMH, net of tax and the related amortization of the deferred charge. (9)Excludes the deduction for common stock cash dividends paid and the availability of a deduction attributable to net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has estimated federal net operating loss carry forwards of $8.2 million that are expected to be utilized prior to their expiration in the year 2020. Estimated taxable income available to common shareholders decreased $63.4 million for the year ended 2006 as compared to decreases of $60.0 million for 2005. The decline in estimated taxable income was mainly attributable to: a decline of $47.7 million in adjusted net interest income at IMH, which includes the realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments and excludes amortization of intercompany loan discounts; a decrease in the dividend from the taxable REIT subsidiaries of $25.5 million, as a result of a decrease in the gains from loan sales; an increase in loan losses of $11.2 million, as a result of an increase in delinquencies; a decrease in fees and other income generated from the warehouse operations of $4.2 million, partially offset by; a $15.9 million of taxable income generated from the investment in our REMIC securitizations in excess of GAAP earnings on the REMICs. The decline in adjusted net interest income at IMH of $47.7 million was primarily the result of a decline in the interest spread on securitized mortgage collateral which resulted from interest rates rising on the borrowings at a faster rate than the adjustable rate mortgages could increase, coupled with a hedge ratio that was less than 100% of the mortgage portfolio. 52  Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition As of December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 As of December 31, Increase (Decrease) % Change 2006 2005 Securitized mortgage collateral $ 21,050,829 $ 24,494,290 $ (3,443,461 ) (14 )% Mortgages held for investment 1,880 160,070 (158,190 ) (99 ) Finance receivables 306,294 350,217 (43,923 ) (13 ) Allowance for loan losses (91,775 ) (78,514 ) (13,261 ) (17 ) Mortgages held for sale 1,561,919 2,052,694 (490,775 ) (24 ) Derivatives 147,291 250,368 (103,077 ) (41 ) Real Estate Owned 161,538 46,351 115,187 249 Other assets 460,979 444,903 16,076 4 Total assets $ 23,598,955 $ 27,720,379 $ (4,121,424 ) (15 )% Securitized mortgage borrowings $ 20,526,369 $ 23,990,430 $ (3,464,061 ) (14 )% Reverse repurchase agreements 1,880,395 2,430,075 (549,680 ) (23 ) Other liabilities 182,661 132,927 49,734 37 Total liabilities 22,589,425 26,553,432 (3,964,007 ) (15 ) Total stockholders equity 1,009,530 1,166,947 (157,417 ) (13 ) Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 23,598,955 $ 27,720,379 $ (4,121,424 ) (15 )% Total assets were $23.6 billion as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $27.7 billion as of prior year end, as the long term investment operations retained $5.3 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and $526.6 million of commercial mortgages, substantially offset by approximately $9.1 billion in prepayments. The prepayments, offset by retentions, decreased the long term mortgage portfolio to $21.1 billion as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $24.7 billion as of prior year end. The acquisition and origination of mortgages were primarily financed through the issuance of $5.9 billion of securitized mortgage borrowings. As of December 31, Increase (Decrease) % Change 2005 2004 Securitized mortgage collateral $ 24,494,290 $ 21,308,906 $ 3,185,384 15 % Mortgages held for investment 160,070 586,686 (426,616 ) (73 ) Finance receivables 350,217 471,820 (121,603 ) (26 ) Allowance for loan losses (78,514 ) (63,955 ) (14,559 ) (23 ) Mortgages held for sale 2,052,694 587,745 1,464,949 249 Derivatives 250,368 95,388 154,980 100 Real Estate Owned 46,351 18,277 28,074 100 Other assets 444,903 810,900 (365,997 ) (45 ) Total assets $ 27,720,379 $ 23,815,767 $ 3,904,612 16 % Securitized mortgage borrowings $ 23,990,430 $ 21,206,373 $ 2,784,057 13 % Reverse repurchase agreements 2,430,075 1,527,558 902,517 59 Other liabilities 132,927 37,761 95,166 252 Total liabilities 26,553,432 22,771,692 3,781,740 17 Total stockholders equity 1,166,947 1,044,075 122,872 12 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 27,720,379 $ 23,815,767 $ 3,904,612 16 % Total assets grew 16 percent to $27.7 billion as of December 31, 2005 as compared to $23.8 billion as of prior year end, as the long term investment operations retained $12.2 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and originated 53 $798.5 million of commercial mortgages, substantially offset by approximately $10.3 billion in prepayments. The retention of Alt A and commercial mortgages increased the long term mortgage portfolio to $24.7 billion as of December 31, 2005 as compared to $21.9 billion as of prior year end. The acquisition and origination of mortgages were primarily financed through the issuance of $14.0 billion of securitized mortgage transactions and net proceeds of $4.2 million in new common equity and net proceeds of $1.7 million in new preferred equity. The following table presents selected financial data for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except per share data): As of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Book value per share $ 11.15 $ 13.24 $ 11.80 Return on average assets ( 0.31% ) 1.01% 1.51% Return on average equity ( 6.38% ) 24.13% 35.62% Assets to equity ratio 23.38:1 23.75:1 22.81:1 Debt to equity ratio 22.29:1 22.72:1 21.77:1 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans provided for 0.43% 0.31% 0.29% Prior 12 month (CPR) Residential 0.38% 0.37% 0.30% Prior 12 month (CPR) Commercial 0.08% 0.09% 0.04% Total non performing assets $ 1,130,942 $ 479,660 $ 259,695 Total non performing assets to total assets 4.79% 1.73% 1.09% Mortgages owned 60+ days delinquent $ 1,360,318 $ 733,348 $ 381,290 60+ day delinquency of mortgages owned 6.24% 3.12% 1.74% We believe that in order for us to generate positive cash flows and net earnings from our long term mortgage portfolio, we must successfully manage the following primary operational and market risks: credit risk; prepayment risk; liquidity risk; and interest rate risk. Credit Risk. We manage credit risk by retaining high credit quality Alt A mortgages and commercial mortgages from our customers, adequately providing for loan losses and actively managing delinquencies and defaults. We believe that by improving the overall credit quality of our long term mortgage portfolio we can consistently generate stable future cash flow and net earnings. During 2006 we retained primarily Alt A mortgages with an original weighted average credit score of 701 and an original weighted average LTV ratio of 72 percent. Alt A mortgages are primarily first lien mortgages made to borrowers whose credit is generally within typical Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guidelines, but that have loan characteristics that make them non conforming under those guidelines. We primarily acquire non conforming "A" or "A " credit quality mortgages, collectively, Alt A mortgages. As of December 31, 2006, the original weighted average credit score of mortgages held as residential and commercial securitized mortgage collateral was 697 and 730 and original weighted average LTV ratio of 74 and 66 percent, respectively. For additional information regarding the long term mortgage portfolio refer to Item 8. "Long Term Mortgage Portfolio," "Note C Securitized Mortgage Collateral" and "Note D Mortgages Held for Investment" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have adequately provided for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses increased to $91.8 million as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $78.5 million as of prior year end. Actual loan charge offs net of recoveries on mortgages in the mortgage portfolio and finance receivables increased to $34.1 million for 2006 as compared to $16.0 million for 2005. Included in the allowance at December 31, 2006 was a specific reserve of 54 $5.7 million for expected losses from hurricane affected areas. Additionally, the Company maintains a specific reserve of $10.6 million for specific warehouse lines that we deem impaired. Also included in the allowance is a $3.5 million specific reserve for loans that were repurchased during 2006 that were held as securitized mortgage collateral in the mortgage operations. We monitor our subservicers to make sure that they perform loss mitigation, foreclosure and collection functions according to our servicing guide. This includes an effective and aggressive collection effort in order to minimize the number of mortgages which become seriously delinquent. When resolving delinquent mortgages, sub servicers are required to take timely and aggressive action. The sub servicer is required to determine payment collection under various circumstances, which will result in maximum financial benefit. We accomplish this by either working with the borrower to bring the mortgage current or by foreclosing and liquidating the property. We perform ongoing review of mortgages that display weaknesses and believe that we maintain an adequate loss allowance on our mortgages. When a borrower fails to make required payments on a mortgage and does not cure the delinquency within 60 days, we generally record a notice of default and commence foreclosure proceedings. If the mortgage is not reinstated within the time permitted by law for reinstatement, the property may then be sold at a foreclosure sale. At foreclosure sales, we generally acquire title to the property. As of December 31, 2006, our long term mortgage portfolio included 6.24 percent of mortgages that were 60 days or more delinquent as compared to 3.12 percent as of year end 2005 and 1.74 percent as of December 31, 2004. The following table summarizes mortgages that we own, including securitized mortgage collateral, mortgages held for investment and mortgages held for sale, that were 60 or more days delinquent for the periods indicated (in thousands): As of December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Loans held for sale 60 89 days delinquent $ 11,838 $ 9,985 $ 4,108 90 or more days delinquent 22,760 11,746 12,049 Foreclosures 13,267 2,573 4,208 Delinquent bankruptcies 1,140 586 Total 60+ days delinquent loans held for sale 47,865 25,444 20,951 Long term mortgage portfolio 60 89 days delinquent $ 379,076 $ 290,054 $ 135,764 90 or more days delinquent 460,161 209,835 56,828 Foreclosures 393,033 158,841 153,659 Delinquent bankruptcies 80,183 49,174 14,088 Total 60+ days delinquent long term mortgage portfolio 1,312,453 707,904 360,339 Total 60 or more days delinquent $ 1,360,318 $ 733,348 $ 381,290 Non performing assets consist of mortgages that are 90 days or more delinquent, including loans in foreclosure and delinquent bankruptcies. It is our policy to place a mortgage on non accrual status when it becomes 90 days delinquent and to reverse from revenue any accrued interest. When real estate is acquired in settlement of loans, or other real estate owned, the mortgage is written down to a percentage of the propertys appraised value or brokers price opinion less anticipated selling costs and including mortgage insurance expected to be received. As of December 31, 2006, non performing assets as a percentage of total assets was 4.50 percent compared to 1.73 percent as of year end 2005 and 1.09 percent as of year end 2004. 55 The following table summarizes mortgages that we own, including securitized mortgage collateral, mortgages held for investment and mortgages held for sale, that were non performing for the periods indicated (in thousands): As of December 31, 2006 2005 2004 90 or more days delinquent, foreclosures and delinquent bankruptcies $ 969,404 $ 433,309 $ 241,418 Other real estate owned 161,538 46,351 18,277 Total non performing assets $ 1,130,942 $ 479,660 $ 259,695 A percentage of real estate owned, which consists of residential real estate acquired in satisfaction of loans, is carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less estimated selling and holding costs. Adjustments to the loan carrying value required at the time of foreclosure are charged against the allowance for loan losses. Losses or gains from the ultimate disposition of real estate owned are recorded as (gain) loss on sale of other real estate owned in the consolidated statement of operations. Real estate owned at December 31, 2006 was $161.5 million (249 percent) higher than 2005, as a result of a seasoning portfolio, slowing prepayments and an increase in non performing loans. We have realized a loss on disposition of real estate owned in the amount of $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to a realized gain on disposition of real estate owned in the amount of $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2006 2005 Beginning balance $ 46,351 $ 18,277 Foreclosures 215,930 78,553 Liquidations (100,743 ) (50,479 ) Ending balance $ 161,538 $ 46,351 In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, a detailed analysis of historical loan performance data is accumulated and reviewed, including the delinquency rates. This data is analyzed for loss performance and prepayment performance by product type, and vintage. The results of that analysis are then applied to the current mortgage portfolio and an estimate is calculated. We believe that pooling of mortgages with similar characteristics is an appropriate methodology in which to evaluate the allowance for loan losses. Management also recognizes that there are qualitative factors that must be taken into consideration when evaluating and measuring inherent loss in our loan portfolios. These items include, but are not limited to, economic indicators that may affect the borrowers ability to pay, changes in value of collateral, political factors and industry statistics. While our delinquency rates have increased they have not increased at a rate in excess of our expectations. We believe our total allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses inherent in our mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2006. Prepayment Risk. The Company uses prepayment penalties as a method of partially mitigating prepayment risk. Mortgage industry evidence suggests that the increase in home appreciation rates and lower payment option mortgage products over the last three years has been a significant factor affecting borrowers refinancing decisions. As rates increase, borrowers will find it more difficult to refinance to a lower rate at the reset dates. If borrowers are unable to pay their mortgage payments at the adjusted rate, delinquencies may increase. The three month constant prepayment rate (CPR) decreased to 36 percent at December 31, 2006 from 38 percent as of December 31, 2005, which is primarily related to interest rates rising faster on fixed rate mortgage loans quicker than our ARMs adjusted upward. 56  During 2006, 56 percent of Alt A mortgages retained by the long term investment operations from the mortgage operations had prepayment penalty features ranging from six months to five years, and as of December 31, 2006, 68 percent of residential securitized mortgages retained had prepayment penalties. As of December 31, 2006, the twelve month CPR of mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral for residential and commercial loans was 38 and 8 percent as compared to 37 and 9 percent as of December 31, 2005 and 30 and 4 percent twelve month CPR as of December 31, 2004. Prepayment penalties are charged to borrowers for mortgages that are repaid early and recorded as interest income on our consolidated financial statements. Interest income from prepayment penalties helps offset additional amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs. During 2006, prepayment penalties received from borrowers were recorded as interest income and increased the yield on average mortgage assets by 19 basis points as compared to 16 basis points for 2005. Liquidity Risk. We employ a leverage strategy to increase assets by financing our long term mortgage portfolio primarily with securitized mortgage borrowings, reverse repurchase agreements and capital, then using cash proceeds to acquire additional mortgage assets. We retain ARMs and FRMs that are acquired and originated from the mortgage and commercial operations and finance the acquisition of those mortgages, during this accumulation period, with reverse repurchase agreements. After accumulating a pool of mortgages, generally between $200 million and $2.5 billion, we sell the mortgages in the form of collateralized mortgage obligations, whole loan sales or REMICs. REMICs may be on balance sheet or off balance sheet. Under either accounting methods, our cash invested on the date of securitization is generally between 3 percent and 5 percent of the borrowings. Our strategy is to sell or securitize our mortgages within 90 days in order to reduce the accumulation period that mortgages are outstanding on short term reverse repurchase facilities, which reduces our exposure to margin calls and reduces spread risk on these facilities. Securitized mortgage borrowings are classes of bonds that are sold to investors of mortgage backed securities and as such are not subject to margin calls. In addition, the securitized mortgage borrowings generally require a smaller initial cash investment as a percentage of mortgages financed than does interim reverse repurchase financing. Additionally, as interest rates decline our requirement to maintain certain cash collateral balances increases, which reduces our cash and cash equivalents available for use in operations. As of December 31, 2006 our cash collateral balance totaled $19.1 million, as compared to $16.6 million as of December 31, 2005. Because of the historically favorable loss rates of our Alt A mortgages, we have received favorable credit ratings on our securitized mortgage borrowings from credit rating agencies, which has increased the percentage of bonds issued and reduced our required initial capital investment. The ratio of total assets to total equity, or "leverage ratio," was 23.38 to 1 as of December 31, 2006 as compared to 23.75 to 1 as of December 31. 2005. This use of leverage at these historical levels allows us to grow our balance sheet by efficiently using available capital. We continually monitor our leverage ratio and liquidity levels to insure that we are adequately protected against adverse changes in market conditions. For additional information regarding liquidity refer to " Liquidity and Capital Resources." Interest Rate Risk. Refer to Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 57 Results of Operations Condensed Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated Interest income $ 1,276,713 $ 1,251,960 $ 24,753 2 % Interest expense 1,311,405 1,047,209 264,196 25 Net interest income (expense) (34,692 ) 204,751 (239,443 ) (117 ) Provision for loan losses 47,326 30,563 16,763 55 Net interest income (expense) after provision for loan losses (82,018 ) 174,188 (256,206 ) (147 ) Total non interest income 120,226 220,806 (100,580 ) (46 ) Total non interest expense 115,338 127,213 (11,875 ) (9 ) Income tax benefit (1,857 ) (2,477 ) 620 25 Net (loss) earnings $ (75,273 ) $ 270,258 $ (345,531 ) (128 )% Net (loss) earnings per share diluted $ (1.18 ) $ 3.35 $ (4.53 ) (135 )% Dividends declared per common share $ 0.95 $ 1.95 $ (1.00 ) (51 )% Condensed Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated restated Interest income $ 1,251,960 $ 755,616 $ 496,344 66 % Interest expense 1,047,209 412,533 634,676 154 Net interest income 204,751 343,083 (138,332 ) (40 ) Provision for loan losses 30,563 30,927 (364 ) (1 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 174,188 312,156 (137,968 ) (44 ) Total non interest income 220,806 41,089 179,717 437 Total non interest expense 127,213 92,846 34,367 37 Income tax (benefit) expense (2,477 ) 2,762 (5,239 ) (190 ) Net earnings $ 270,258 $ 257,637 $ 12,621 5 % Net earnings per share diluted $ 3.35 $ 3.72 $ (0.37 ) (10 )% Dividends declared per common share $ 1.95 $ 2.90 $ (0.95 ) (33 )% Net Interest Income (expense) We earn net interest income primarily from mortgage assets which include securitized mortgage collateral, mortgages held for investment, mortgages held for sale, finance receivables and investment securities available for sale, or collectively, "mortgage assets," and, to a lesser extent, interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense is primarily interest paid on borrowings on mortgage assets, which include securitized mortgage borrowings, reverse repurchase agreements and borrowings secured by investment securities available for sale. Net interest income also includes (1) amortization of acquisition costs on mortgages acquired from the mortgage operations, (2) accretion of loan discounts, which primarily represents the amount allocated to mortgage servicing rights when they are sold to third parties and mortgages are transferred to the 58 long term investment operations from the mortgage operations and retained for long term investment, (3) amortization of securitized mortgage securitization expenses and, to a lesser extent, (4) amortization of securitized mortgage bond discounts. The following table summarizes average balance, interest and weighted average yield on mortgage assets and borrowings on mortgage assets for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Average Balance Interest Yield Average Balance Interest Yield Average Balance Interest Yield MORTGAGE ASSETS Subordinated securities collateralized by mortgages $ 29,918 $ 4,263 14.25% $ 39,054 $ 1,656 4.24% $ 27,937 $ 3,764 13.47% Securitized mortgage collateral (1) 21,311,592 1,121,481 5.27% 23,132,083 1,061,712 4.59% 14,283,347 618,771 4.33% Mortgages held for investment and held for sale 1,878,675 121,266 6.45% 2,587,614 163,087 6.30% 1,837,347 105,742 5.76% Finance receivables 275,571 20,960 7.61% 352,833 20,332 5.76% 510,899 25,018 4.90% Total mortgage assets\ interest income $ 23,495,756 $ 1,267,970 5.40% $ 26,111,584 $ 1,246,787 4.77% $ 16,659,530 $ 753,295 4.52% BORROWINGS Securitized mortgage borrowings $ 20,848,143 $ 1,183,150 5.68% $ 22,721,309 $ 919,732 4.05% $ 14,072,852 $ 354,547 2.52% Reverse repurchase agreements 2,010,931 118,958 5.92% 2,730,805 121,755 4.46% 2,175,728 57,837 2.66% Total borrowings on mortgage assets\ interest expense $ 22,859,074 $ 1,302,108 5.70% $ 25,452,114 $ 1,041,487 4.09% $ 16,248,580 $ 412,384 2.54% Net Interest Spread (2) ( 0.30 )% 0.68% 1.98% Net Interest Margin (3) ( 0.15 )% 0.79% 2.05% Net interest (expense) income on mortgage assets $ (34,138 ) ( 0.15 )% $ 205,300 0.79% $ 340,911 2.05% Less: accretion of loan discounts (4) (64,414 ) ( 0.27 )% (77,051 ) ( 0.30 )% (54,867 ) ( 0.33 )% Adjusted by net cash receipts (payments) on derivatives (5) 204,435 0.87% 22,595 0.09% (91,882 ) ( 0.55 )% Adjusted Net Interest Margin (6) $ 105,883 0.45% $ 150,844 0.58% $ 194,162 1.17% Effect of amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs (7) $ 232,045 ( 0.99 )% $ 295,476 ( 1.13 )% $ 166,649 ( 1.00 )% (1)Interest on securitized mortgage collateral includes amortization of acquisition cost on mortgages acquired from the mortgage operations and accretion of loan discounts. (2)Net interest spread on mortgage assets is calculated by subtracting the weighted average yield on total borrowings on mortgage assets from the weighted average yield on total mortgage assets. (3)Net interest margin on mortgage assets is calculated by subtracting interest expense on total borrowings on mortgage assets from interest income on total mortgage assets and then dividing by total average mortgage assets and annualized for the quarter margin. (4)Yield represents income from the accretion of loan discounts, included in (1) above, divided by total average mortgage assets. (5)Yield represents net cash (payments) receipts on derivatives divided by total average mortgage assets. (6)Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets is calculated by subtracting interest expense on total borrowings on mortgage assets, accretion of loan discounts and net cash receipts on derivatives from interest income on total mortgage assets divided by total average mortgage assets. Net cash receipts on derivatives are a component of realized gain on derivative instruments on the consolidated statements of operations. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets is a non GAAP financial measurement, however, the reconciliation provided in this table is intended to meet the requirements of Regulation G as promulgated by the SEC for the presentation of non GAAP financial measurements. We believe that the presentation of adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets is a useful 59 operating performance measure for our investors as it more closely reflects the economics of net interest margins on mortgage assets by providing information to evaluate net interest income attributable to net investments. (7)The amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs are components of interest income and interest expense, respectively. Yield represents the cost of amortization of net loan premiums and securitization costs divided by total average mortgage assets. For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Decreases in net interest income were primarily due to a decline in net interest margins on mortgage assets primarily caused by the following: increase in one month LIBOR rate underlying borrowings only partially offset by realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments; differences in interest rate adjustment periods, mortgage loans and mortgage borrowings; prepayments of higher yielding mortgages; and, a more challenging competitive environment. Net interest income for 2006 was $239.4 million (117 percent) lower than 2005. The year over year decrease in net interest income was primarily due to the change in the one month LIBOR, which is the interest rate index used to price borrowing costs on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings, which rose approximately 94 basis points since 2005 while mortgage assets over the same period did not re price upward as quickly. This resulted in interest expense increasing by $264.2 million (25 percent) in 2006 as compared to 2005. Additionally total average mortgage assets declined by $2.6 billion (10 percent) for 2006 as compared to 2005. Adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, as defined in the yield table above, declined by 13 basis points (22 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets was primarily due to a negative variance of 161 basis points in borrowing costs partially offset by a favorable variance of 78 basis points on realized gains from derivative assets and a favorable variance of 63 basis points on mortgage assets as coupons have adjusted. During 2006, the Federal Reserve raised short term interest rates 100 basis points, which effected movements in one month LIBOR, a total of 94 basis points. This caused borrowing costs on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings, which are tied to one month LIBOR and re price monthly without limitation, to increase at a faster pace than coupons on LIBOR ARMs securing securitized mortgage borrowings, which generally re price every six months with limitation. LIBOR ARMs held in our long term investment portfolio are subject to the following interest rate risks: interest rate adjustment limitations on mortgages held for investment due to periodic and lifetime interest rate cap features as compared to borrowings which are not subject to adjustment limitations; mismatched interest rate re pricing periods between mortgages held for investment, which generally re price every six months, and borrowings, which re price every month in regards to securitized mortgage borrowings and daily in regards to reverse repurchase agreements; and uneven and unequal movements in the interest rate indices used to re price mortgages held for investment, which are generally indexed to one , three and six month LIBOR and one year LIBOR, and borrowings, which are generally indexed to one month LIBOR. Mortgage prepayment speeds mitigated during 2006. The three month constant prepayment rate (CPR) decreased to 36 percent at December 31, 2006 from 38 percent as of December 31, 2005, which is related to rates rising in the marketplace at a faster rate than the rates on our adjustable mortgage loans. Amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs decreased by 14 basis points (12 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease was a result of a lower prepayment rate than in the prior year. A substantial portion of our long term mortgage investment portfolio consists of mortgages with prepayment penalty features that are primarily designed to help minimize the rate of early mortgage prepayments. However, if borrowers do prepay on mortgages, a prepayment penalty is charged which helps partially offset additional amortization of 60 loan premiums and securitization costs related to the prepaid mortgages. During 2006, prepayment penalties received from borrowers was recorded as interest income and increased adjusted net interest margin by 3 basis points (19 percent) of mortgage assets as compared to 2005. Additionally, the net interest margin continues to be affected by the difficult competitive environment facing mortgage portfolio lenders. As a result, net interest margins continue to tighten on newly originated loans. Furthermore, a rise in short term rates and a decline in long term rates have resulted in a partial inversion of the yield curve, adding pressure to mortgage lending profitability. During 2006, adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, which is a non GAAP financial measurement as indicated in the yield table above, declined by 13 basis points (22 percent) as compared to 2005. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets did not decline as much as net interest margin on mortgage assets primarily due to a 78 basis point increase in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments relative to total average mortgage assets. Benefits received from derivatives relative to total average mortgage assets partially offset the decline in the net interest margin on mortgage assets which was caused by the factors described above. Our interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset the potential adverse effects of changing interest rates primarily associated with cash flows on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. However, as a result of the combination of the factors listed above, the interest rate spread differential between ARMs and adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings compressed, which decreased net interest margins on mortgage assets. By design, our current interest rate risk management program provides 20 percent to 25 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of our six month LIBOR ARMs and 85 percent to 98 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of intermediate, or hybrid, ARMs at the point in time that we securitize the mortgages. Income Taxes. Income tax benefit decreased to $1.9 million during 2006 as compared to $2.5 million during 2005 primarily due to an increase in operating losses at IFC and ICCC. IFC and ICCC are taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRS) and are therefore subject to corporate income taxes. For GAAP purposes, the Company records a deferred charge to eliminate the expense recognition of income taxes paid on inter company profits that result from the sale of mortgages from IFC and ICCC to the long term investment operations. Included in the income tax expense is the amortization of the deferred charge. A deferred charge was recorded to eliminate the income tax effect resulting from gains on inter company mortgage sales from the mortgage and commercial operations (taxable REIT subsidiaries) to the REIT. The deferred charge is amortized to expense over the expected life of the mortgages. Amortization of deferred charge was $20.6 million during 2006 as compared to $27.2 million during 2005. The year over year decrease in the amortization of the deferred charge was the result of a lower average balance of deferred charge in 2006 as compared 2005 as a result of $7.2 billion (55 percent) decrease in retention of mortgages by the long term investment operations from the mortgage and commercial operations in 2006. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Decreases in net interest income were primarily due to a decline in net interest margins on mortgage assets primarily caused by the following: increase in one month LIBOR rate underlying borrowings only partially offset by realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments; differences in interest rate adjustment periods; faster amortization of mortgage premium and securitized mortgage securitization cost; use of higher leverage lower net interest margin securitized mortgages completed during since the second half of 2004; and an increasingly challenging competitive environment. Net interest income for 2005 decreased 40 percent to $204.7 million as compared to $343.1 million for 2004. The year over year decrease in net interest income of $138.3 million was primarily due to net interest margins on mortgage assets declining by 126 basis points to 0.79 percent for 2005 as compared to 2.05 percent for 2004. Net 61 interest margin on mortgage assets declined as one month LIBOR, which is the interest rate index used to price borrowing costs on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings, rose approximately 200 basis points since 2004 while mortgage assets over the same period did not re price upward as quickly. This resulted in an increase in interest expense of 154 percent to $1.0 billion in 2005 compared to $412.5 million in 2004. Adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, as defined in the yield table above, declined by 59 basis points to 0.58 percent during 2005 as compared to 1.17 percent during 2004. The decrease in adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets was primarily due to (1) an increase in short term interest rates, (2) an increase in the amortization of loan premiums, securitization costs and bond discounts as a result of higher than expected mortgage prepayments and, to a lesser extent, (3) higher leverage and lower net interest margins on certain securitized mortgages completed during the second half of 2004. During 2005, the Federal Reserve raised short term interest rates, which effected movements in one month LIBOR, a total of 200 basis points. This caused borrowing costs on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings, which are tied to one month LIBOR and re price monthly without limitation, to rise at a faster pace than coupons on LIBOR ARMs securing securitized mortgage borrowings, which generally re price every six months with limitation. LIBOR ARMs held in our long term investment portfolio are subject to the following interest rate risks: interest rate adjustment limitations on mortgages held for investment due to periodic and lifetime interest rate cap features as compared to borrowings which are not subject to adjustment limitations; mismatched interest rate re pricing periods between mortgages held for investment, which generally re price every six months, and borrowings, which re price every month in regards to securitized mortgage borrowings and daily in regards to reverse repurchase agreements; and uneven and unequal movements in the interest rate indices used to re price mortgages held for investment, which are generally indexed to one , three and six month LIBOR and one year LIBOR, and borrowings, which are generally indexed to one month LIBOR. Along with an increase in short term interest rates, our expectation, based on past experience, was that we would see a corresponding decline in mortgage prepayment speeds. However, mortgage prepayment speeds continued at heightened levels during 2005. There is recent mortgage industry evidence that documents a substantial increase in home appreciation rates over the last three years which has been a significant factor affecting prepayment patterns of Alt A borrowers. Borrowers appear more willing to use home equity to pay loan prepayment penalties in order to obtain lower monthly payments by refinancing into other mortgage products, such as interest only and high loan to value mortgage products. Actual prepayment speeds in excess of projected future prepayment rates resulted in a cumulative upward adjustment in both the amortization rate and amortization amount of loan premiums, securitization costs and bond discounts during 2005. As such, amortization of loan premiums and securitization expenses increased by 13 basis points to 1.13 percent of average mortgage assets during 2005 as compared to 1.00 percent of average mortgage assets during 2004. A substantial portion of our long term mortgage investment portfolio consists of mortgages with prepayment penalty features that are primarily designed to help minimize the rate of early mortgage prepayments. However, if mortgages do prepay, a prepayment penalty is charged which helps offset additional amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs. During 2005, prepayment penalties received from borrowers was recorded as interest income and increased 10 basis points to 16 basis points of mortgage assets as compared to 6 basis points of mortgage assets in 2004. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our ability to raise capital in 2004 during the process of restating our consolidated financial statements, we utilized securitized mortgage structures during the second half of 2004 which allowed us to preserve existing capital through the use of higher leverage and lower net interest margins. Higher leverage securitized mortgages were structured to require a lower level of initial capital investment than for securitized mortgages completed prior to July 2004. Capital invested in higher leverage securitized mortgages has been, and will continue to be, deposited into those specific securitized mortgage trusts from monthly excess cash flows on mortgages securing the securitized mortgages until the required level of capital investment is attained. The use of higher leverage securitized mortgages contributed to compressed net interest margins on total mortgage assets. 62  Additionally, the net interest margin continues to be impacted by the difficult competitive environment facing mortgage portfolio lenders. As a result, net interest margins continue to tighten on newly originated loans. Furthermore, a rise in short term rates and decline in long term rates has resulted in a flattening of the yield curve, adding pressure to mortgage lending profitability. During 2005, adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, which is a non GAAP financial measurement as indicated in the yield table above, decreased by 59 basis points as compared to a decline of 126 basis points on net interest margin on mortgage assets. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets did not decline as much as net interest margin on mortgage assets primarily due to a 64 basis point increase in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments relative to total average mortgage assets. Lower derivative costs relative to total average mortgage assets partially offset the decline in adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets which was caused by the factors described above. Adjusted net interest margins were also affected by the following during 2005: our interest rate risk management policies do not allow 100 percent coverage of the principal amount outstanding on securitized mortgage borrowings at any given time; and actual mortgage prepayments and the corresponding repayment of securitized mortgage borrowings exceeded the pre determined amortization schedule of the notional amount of derivative instruments. Our interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset the potential adverse effects of changing interest rates primarily associated with cash flows on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. However, as a result of the combination of the factors listed above, the interest rate spread differential between ARMs and adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings compressed, which compressed net interest margins on mortgage assets. By design, our current interest rate risk management program provides 20 percent to 25 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of our six month LIBOR ARMs and 85 percent to 98 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of intermediate, or hybrid, ARMs at the point in time that we securitize the mortgages. Income Taxes. Income taxes decreased to a benefit $2.5 million during 2005 as compared to an expense of $2.8 million during 2004 primarily due to an increase in operating losses at IFC when profits on inter Company loan sales are eliminated from IFCs net earnings. IFC is a taxable REIT subsidiary (TRS) and is therefore subject to corporate income taxes. For GAAP purposes, the Company records a deferred charge to eliminate the expense recognition of income taxes paid on inter Company profits that result from the sale of mortgages from IFC to the long term operations. The amortization of the deferred charge is recorded in other expense rather than income tax expense. A deferred charge was recorded to eliminate the income tax effect resulting from gains on inter company mortgage sales, which primarily represent the amount allocated to MSRs when they are sold to third parties. The deferred charge is amortized to expense over the expected life of the mortgages. Amortization of deferred charge was $27.2 million during 2005 as compared to $16.2 million during 2004. The year over year increase in the amortization of the deferred charge was the result of a higher average balance of deferred charge in 2005 as compared 2004 as a result of $16.9 billion in retentions of mortgages by the long term investment operations from the mortgage operations in 2004. Also, the increase in amortization was associated with the higher loan prepayments in 2005 as compared to 2004. 63 Non Interest Income For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Changes in Non Interest Income (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Realized gain from derivative instruments $ 204,435 $ 22,595 $ 181,840 805 % Change in fair value of derivative instruments (113,017 ) 144,932 (257,949 ) (178 ) Gain on sale of loans 43,173 49,770 (6,597 ) (13 ) Provision for repurchases (7,367 ) (5,796 ) (1,571 ) (27 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (34,001 ) (4,465 ) (29,536 ) (662 ) Amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights (1,428 ) (2,006 ) 578 29 Impairment on investment securities available for sale (925 ) (925 ) (100 ) (Gain) loss on sale of other real estate owned (5,058 ) 1,888 (6,946 ) (368 ) Other income 34,414 13,888 20,526 148 Total non interest income $ 120,226 $ 220,806 $ (100,580 ) (46 )% Realized Gain from Derivative Instruments. Realized gains from derivative instruments increased by $181.8 million (805 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase in realized gains from derivatives is due to the 94 basis point increase in the one month LIBOR from the end of 2005, which has caused the floating rate payments received on swaps to increase above the fixed payments made. Realized gains from derivative instruments are recorded as current period expense or income on our consolidated financial statements and are included in the calculation of taxable income. Realized gains exclude the mark to market gains that are realized for tax purposes at the taxable REIT subsidiaries when the loans held for sale are deposited into the securitization trust, and the related derivatives are deposited into a swap trust. These gains are not realized for GAAP purposes, as the deposit of the derivatives into the swap trust are considered an inter company transfer, as the REIT consolidates the swap trust. For GAAP purpose, these gains and losses are included in change in fair value of derivative instruments. Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instruments. Change in fair value of derivative instruments decreased to a loss of $113.0 million during 2006 as compared to gains of $144.9 million during 2005. The decrease in market valuation was the result of the net cash payments received on the derivatives, which are recorded as realized gains. We primarily enter into derivative contracts to offset changes in cash flows associated with securitized mortgage liabilities. In our consolidated financial statements, we record a market valuation adjustment for these derivatives, as well as other derivatives used by the mortgage and commercial operations to hedge our loan pipeline and mortgage loans held for sale, as current period expense or revenue. Changes in the fair value of derivatives at IMH are not included as an addition or deduction for purposes of calculating estimated taxable income. Gain on Sale of Loans. Gain on sale of loans decreased $6.6 million (13 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease was primarily due to an 18 percent decrease in whole loan sales and un consolidated REMIC securitizations as the mortgage and commercial operations sold $7.1 billion of loans to third party investors including an $834.0 million un consolidated REMIC during 2006 as compared to $8.7 billion and $633.9 million, respectively for 2005. Additionally, we use derivatives to protect the market value of mortgages from the point in time when we establish an interest rate lock commitment on a particular mortgage prior to its close until the eventual sale or securitization. Any changes in interest rates on mortgages that we have committed to acquire at a particular rate until we sell or securitize the mortgage generally results in an increase or decrease in the market value of the related derivative. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded an $8.8 million loss from the settlement of these derivatives as compared to a gain of $25.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. 64 Provision for Repurchases. Provision for repurchases increased $1.6 million (27 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase in the provision for repurchases was primarily due to an increase in outstanding loan repurchase requests to $182.0 million at the end of 2006 compared to $59.4 million at December 31, 2005. Loss on Lower of Cost or Market Writedown. The loss on lower of cost or market ("LOCOM") writedown increased $29.5 million (662 percent), primarily due to an $18.8 million writedown on loans held for sale that were repurchased in the second quarter due to higher early payment defaults on whole loan sales. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Changes in Non Interest Income (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments $ 22,595 $ (91,881 ) $ 114,476 125% Change in fair value of derivative instruments 144,932 96,575 48,357 50 Gain on sale of loans 49,770 25,134 24,636 98 Provision for repurchases (5,796 ) (405 ) (5,391 ) (1331 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (4,465 ) 4,465 100 Amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights (2,006 ) (2,063 ) 57 3 Impairment on investment securities available for sale (1,120 ) 1,120 100 Gain on sale of other real estate owned 1,888 3,901 (2,013 ) (52 ) Other income 13,888 10,948 2,940 27 Total non interest income $ 220,806 $ 41,089 $ 179,717 437 % Realized Gain (Loss) from Derivative Instruments. Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments increased to $22.6 million during 2005 as compared to $(91.9) million during 2004, or 9 basis points of total average mortgage assets during 2005 as compared to (55) basis points of total average mortgage assets during 2004. The increase in realized gain (loss) from derivatives is due to the 200 basis point increase in one month LIBOR from the end of 2004, which has caused the floating rate payment received on swaps to increase above the fixed payment made. Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments are recorded as current period expense or revenue on our consolidated financial statements and are included in the calculation of taxable income. Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instruments. Change in fair value of derivative instruments increased to $144.9 million during 2005 as compared to $96.6 million during 2004. The increase in market valuation adjustment was the result of an increase in future expectations of short term interest rates which took place during 2005 as a result of stronger than expected employment growth and rising inflationary expectations. We primarily enter into derivative contracts to offset changes in cash flows associated with securitized mortgage liabilities. In our consolidated financial statements, we record a market valuation adjustment for these derivatives, as well as other derivatives used by the mortgage operations to hedge our loan pipeline and mortgage loans held for sale, as current period expense or revenue. Changes in fair value of derivatives at IMH are not included as an addition or deduction for purposes of calculating estimated taxable income. Gain on Sale of Loans. Gain on sale of loans increased to $39.5 million during 2005 as compared to $24.7 million during 2004. The increase of $14.8 million is primarily due to a 64 percent increase in whole loan sales and a REMIC securitization as the mortgage operations sold $8.7 billion of loans to third party investors and a REMIC during 2005 as compared to $5.3 billion for the same period in 2004. Additionally, we use derivatives to protect the market value of mortgages from the point in time when we establish an interest rate lock commitment on a particular mortgage prior to its close until the eventual sale or securitization. Any changes in interest rates on mortgages that we have committed to acquire at a particular rate until we sell or securitize the mortgage generally results in an increase or decrease in the market value of the related derivative. For the year ended December 31, 65 2005, we recorded a $25.6 million gain from the settlement of these derivatives as compared to a loss of $(24.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Repurchases. Provision for repurchases increased $5.4 million (1331 percent) during 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase in the provision for repurchases was primarily due to an increase in outstanding loan repurchase requests at December 31, 2005. Loss on Lower of Cost or Market Writedown. GAAP requires us to record our loans held for sale at the lower of cost or market (LOCOM) value. Market conditions at the end of 2005, such as widening of credit and bond spreads and an oversupply of mortgage inventory, resulted in the loans decreasing in value below cost are at end of 2005 resulting in us recording a $4.5 million LOCOM adjustment. Non Interest Expense For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Changes in Non Interest Expense (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated Personnel expense $ 65,082 $ 77,508 $ (12,426 ) (16 )% General and administrative and other expense 19,867 25,384 (5,517 ) (22 ) Professional services 8,762 9,496 (734 ) (8 ) Equipment expense 7,791 5,420 2,371 44 Occupancy expense 8,735 5,018 3,717 74 Data processing expense 5,101 4,387 714 16 Total operating expense 115,338 127,213 (11,875 ) (9 ) Total non interest expense $ 115,338 $ 127,213 $ (11,875 ) (9 )% Operating expenses. Operating expenses include personnel expense, general and administrative and other expense, professional services, equipment expense, occupancy expense and data processing expense. Operating expenses decreased by $11.9 million (9 percent), as the Company continued to reduce headcount to offset decreases in loan production. Total acquisitions and originations declined to $12.6 billion for 2006 as compared to $22.3 billion in 2005, we continued to evaluate personnel levels needed to support the current levels of production. In addition, a decrease in staffing caused a decrease of $5.5 million (22 percent), in general and administrative and other expenses. In compliance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 146 "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," $2.3 million of costs relating to the Companys ceased use of the buildings leased in Newport Beach, California were recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Additionally, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," the Company recorded an impairment charge on the leasehold improvements located at the Newport Beach, California facilities in the amount of $1.3 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. 66 For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Changes in Non Interest Expense (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated restated Personnel expense $ 77,508 $ 60,420 $ 17,088 28 % General and administrative and other expense 25,384 17,097 8,287 48 Professional services 9,496 4,374 5,122 117 Equipment expense 5,420 3,689 1,731 47 Occupancy expense 5,018 3,658 1,360 37 Data processing expense 4,387 3,608 779 22 Total operating expense 127,213 92,846 34,367 37 Total non interest expense $ 127,213 $ 92,846 $ 34,367 37 % Operating costs rose by $34.4 million, or 37 percent, as the Company continued to upgrade and expand the staffs of primarily our Information Technology and Internal Audit departments. Although the mortgage operations acquisitions and originations remained substantially unchanged at $22.3 billion for 2005 as compared to $22.2 billion in 2004, we continued to hire personnel to support the current levels of production. Operating costs also increased during 2005 due to the expansion of our wholesale mortgage operations into the Midwest and East Coast including the hiring of mortgage professionals and the assumption of certain premises and operating leases. In addition, an increase in staffing caused an increase of $8.3 million, or 48 percent, in general and administrative and other expense while occupancy expense increased to $5.0 million, or 37 percent, during 2005 as compared to $3.7 million during 2004. In order to accommodate expansion, we entered into premises leases for office space directly surrounding our main corporate facility in Newport Beach, California. The expansion of our operations within a geographically centralized area allows us to maintain our centralized operating approach. Results of Operations by Business Segment We operate four core businesses: the Long Term Investment Operations; the Mortgage Operations; the Commercial Operations; and the Warehouse Lending Operations. 67 Long Term Investment Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income (expense) after provison for loan losses $ (117,151 ) $ 74,604 $ (191,755 ) (257 )% Provision for loan losses 43,139 30,563 12,576 41 Net interest income (expense) after provison for loan losses (160,290 ) 44,041 (204,331 ) (464 ) Realized gain from derivative instruments 203,957 22,595 181,362 803 Change in fair value of derivative instruments (114,490 ) 155,695 (270,185 ) (174 ) Other non interest income (expense) (2,681 ) 3,554 (6,235 ) (175 ) Total non interest income 86,786 181,844 (95,058 ) (52 ) Non interest expense and income taxes 18,259 16,109 2,150 13 Net (loss) earnings $ (91,763 ) $ 209,776 $ (301,539 ) (144 )% Net interest income. Net interest income decreased $191.8 million (257 percent) primarily due to a 29 percent increase in borrowing cost on securitized mortgage borrowings as the one month LIBOR increased approximately 94 basis points in 2006. The long term investment operations acquired $5.8 billion of mortgages from the mortgage and commercial operations. The acquisition of mortgages by the long term investment operations was primarily financed by the securitization of $5.9 billion of securitized mortgages. The adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral remained relatively flat at 0.37 percent during 2006 from 0.39 percent during 2005. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held in the long term mortgage portfolio is calculated by subtracting interest expense on securitized mortgage borrowings, accretion of loan discounts related to the long term investment operations from interest income including realized gains from derivatives on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral, and loans held for investment (2.9 million) and dividing by the average mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral and loans held for investment (47.1 million) in the yield table above. Non interest income. Non interest income for the long term investment operations is primarily derived from realized gains from derivative instruments and change in fair value of derivative instruments. During 2006, non interest income decreased $95.1 million (52 percent) primarily due to increases of $181.4 million in realized gains from derivative instruments offset by a decrease of $270.2 million in change in fair value of derivative instruments. The change in the fair value of the derivatives is the result of the cash receipts received on the derivatives (realized gains on derivatives) compounded by short term borrowing rates rising faster than fixed rate mortgage loans. On January 1, 2006, we elected to change IMCC from a qualified REIT subsidiary to a taxable REIT subsidiary which is consistent with the remaining mortgage operations. The loan portfolio remains as part of the REIT assets while the commercial origination operations, ICCC, will be subject to state and federal income taxes beginning in 2006. 68 For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 74,604 $ 231,944 $ (157,340 ) (68 )% Provision for loan losses 30,563 24,851 5,712 23 Net interest income after provison for loan losses 44,041 207,093 (163,052 ) (79 ) Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments 22,595 (91,881 ) 114,476 125 Change in fair value of derivative instruments 155,695 96,575 59,120 61 Other non interest income 3,554 14,756 (11,202 ) (76 ) Total non interest income 181,844 19,450 162,394 835 Non interest expense and income taxes 16,109 11,241 4,868 43 Net earnings $ 209,776 $ 215,302 $ (5,526 ) (3 )% Net interest income. Net interest income decreased 68 percent to $74.6 million for 2005 as compared to $231.9 million for 2004 primarily due to a 153 percent increase in borrowing cost on mortgage assets as one month LIBOR increased approximately 200 basis points in 2005. The long term investment operations acquired $12.2 billion of mortgages from the mortgage operations and originated $798.5 million of commercial mortgages. The acquisition and origination of mortgages by the long term investment operations was primarily financed by the securitization of $14.0 billion of securitized mortgages. The adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral declined 52 basis points to 0.39 percent during 2005 as compared to 0.91 percent during 2004. The decline in adjusted net interest margin was primarily due to (1) an increase in short term interest rates, (2) an increase in the amortization of loan premiums, securitization costs and bond discounts as a result of higher than expected mortgage prepayments and, to a lesser extent, (3) higher leverage and lower net interest margins on certain securitized mortgages completed during the second half of 2005, as previously discussed. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral is calculated by subtracting interest expense on securitized mortgage borrowings, accretion of loan discounts and cost of derivatives from interest income on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral and dividing by average mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral in the yield table above. Non interest income. Non interest income for our long term investment operations is primarily derived from realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments, change in fair value of derivative instruments, gain (loss) on loans held for sale, gain (loss) on sale of securities, loan servicing income and other fee income. During 2005, non interest income rose by $163.5 million to $179.8 million as compared to $16.3 million during 2004 primarily due to increases of $114.5 million in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments and $59.1 million in change in fair value of derivative instruments. The increase in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments is primarily associated with the increase in one month LIBOR and the change in fair value of derivative instruments is primarily attributable to an increase in future expectations of higher one month LIBOR rates positively affecting the value of derivatives. 69 Mortgage Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income (expense) $ (9,091 ) $ 3,824 $ (12,915 ) (338 )% Provision for loan losses 4,272 4,272 100 Net interest income (expense) after provison for loan losses $ (13,363 ) $ 3,824 $ (17,187 ) (449 ) Gain on sale of loans 92,778 132,035 (39,257 ) (30 ) Provision for repurchases (7,367 ) (5,796 ) (1,571 ) (27 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (34,000 ) (4,465 ) (29,535 ) (661 ) Other income (loss) 31,477 (10,351 ) 41,828 404 Non interest expense and income taxes 87,754 100,279 (12,525 ) (12 ) Net (loss) earnings $ (18,229 ) $ 14,968 $ (33,197 ) (222 )% The mortgage operations generates income by securitizing or selling mortgages to permanent investors, including the long term investment operations and, to a lesser extent, earns revenue from fees associated with mortgage servicing rights, master servicing agreements and interest income earned on mortgages held for sale. Net earnings for the mortgage operations decreased $33.2 million (222 percent) primarily due to the following changes: decrease of $12.9 million in net interest income (expense); decrease of $39.3 million in gains from the sale of loans; increase in charges to expense of $29.5 million for the write down of loans held for sale; decrease in non interest expenses of $12.5 million; offset by increase in other income of $41.8 million. Net interest income dropped 338 percent during 2006 as the yields on borrowings for mortgage loans held for sale increased 146 basis points during 2006, primarily the result of a 94 basis point increase in the one month LIBOR during 2006. Gains from the sale of loans decreased 30 percent as a result of lower volumes of mortgages sold to the long term investment operations and third party investors resulted in a decrease in gain (loss) on sale of loans. The mortgage operations sold $12.2 billion to the long term investment operations and third party investors in 2006, 43 percent less than the $21.4 billion sold in 2005. Gain (loss) on sale of loans includes the difference between the price at which we acquire or originate mortgages and the price we receive upon the sale or securitization of mortgages plus or minus direct mortgage origination revenue and costs, e.g. loan and underwriting fees, commissions, appraisal review fees and document processing expenses. Gain on sale of loans acquired or originated by the mortgage operations also includes a premium for the sale of mortgage servicing rights upon the sale or securitization of mortgages. In order to minimize risks associated with the accumulation of mortgages, we seek to securitize or sell mortgages monthly thereby reducing our exposure to interest rate risk and price volatility during the accumulation period of mortgages. Additionally, as required by GAAP, the Company recorded loans held for sale at the lower of cost or market resulting in a $34.0 million write down as current market conditions, such as the widening of credit and bond spreads and a lack of demand for mortgage product forced the loans to 70 drop in value prior to securitization, sale or transfer. The $34.0 million write down was primarily attributable to loans repurchased during the second and fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The mortgage operations are reflected as a stand alone entity for segment financial reporting purposes; however, on the consolidated financial statements inter company loan sales and related gains are eliminated. Other income increased $41.8 million as the Company earned more fees in the current year from loan servicing fees and interest income on custody accounts. Additionally this change includes a $20.5 million increase as a result of a favorable mark to market adjustment on the derivatives at the mortgage operations. Non interest expense and income taxes decreased $12.5 million as operating expenses decreased 25 percent to $77.5 million in 2006. Mortgage acquisitions and originations decreased 44 percent, while personnel expenses decreased 56 percent to $25.0 million in 2006 as compared to $56.2 million for 2005, as the Company reduced personnel levels complementary to the reduced production volume. Also included in operating expenses for 2006 was $2.1 million and $1.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter for contract termination charges and impaired leasehold improvements, respectively, recorded as a result of the Companys move from the Newport Beach, California facilities. The mortgage operations recorded income taxes of $10.3 million for 2006 as compared to a tax benefit of $3.3 million for 2005. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 3,824 $ 14,744 $ (10,920 ) (74 )% Provision for loan losses Net interest income after provison for loan losses $ 3,824 $ 14,744 $ (10,920 ) (74 ) Gain on sale of loans 132,035 137,514 (5,479 ) (4 ) Provision for repurchases (5,796 ) (405 ) (5,391 ) (1331 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (4,465 ) (4,465 ) (100 ) Other income (loss) (10,351 ) (13,261 ) 2,910 22 Non interest expense and income taxes 100,279 95,648 4,631 5 Net earnings $ 14,968 $ 42,944 $ (27,976 ) (65 )% The mortgage operations generates income by securitizing and selling mortgages to permanent investors, including the long term investment operations and to a lesser extent, earns revenue from fees associated with mortgage servicing rights, master servicing agreements and interest income earned on mortgages held for sale. Net earnings for the mortgage operations were $14.9 million during 2005 as compared to $42.9 million during 2004. The decrease in net earnings was primarily due to decreases of $10.9 million in net interest income and $10.5 million in non interest income, offset by an increase in non interest expense and income taxes of $6.5 million. Net interest income dropped 74 percent during 2005 to $3.8 million as compared to $14.7 million for 2004. Although interest income on mortgage assets increased 106 percent to $127.0 million as compared to $61.7 million for 2004, borrowing costs, which are tied to one month LIBOR, increased approximately 200 basis points which caused borrowing costs to increase faster than the adjustments on our assets and resulted in an overall decrease in net interest income. 71  Non interest income decreased 8 percent during 2005 primarily due to a $15.3 million decrease in gain (loss) on sale of loans. Lower volumes of mortgages sold to the long term investment operations and third party investors resulted in a decrease in gain (loss) on sale of loans. The mortgage operations sold $20.9 billion to the long term investment operations and third party investors in 2005, 6 percent less than the $22.2 billion sold in 2004. Gain (loss) on sale of loans includes the difference between the price at which we acquire or originate mortgages and the price we receive upon the sale or securitization of mortgages plus or minus direct mortgage origination revenue and costs, i.e. loan and underwriting fees, commissions, appraisal review fees and document processing expenses. Gain on sale of loans acquired or originated by the mortgage operations also includes a premium for the sale of mortgage servicing rights upon the sale or securitization of mortgages including REMICs and securitized mortgages. In order to minimize risks associated with the accumulation of our mortgages, we seek to securitize or sell mortgages monthly thereby reducing our exposure to interest rate risk and price volatility during the accumulation period of mortgages. Additionally, as required by GAAP, the Company recorded loans held for sale at the lower of cost or market resulting in a $4.5 million write down as current market conditions, such as the widening of credit and bond spreads and a lack of demand for mortgage product forced the loans to drop in value at year end. Additionally, net earnings decreased as non interest expense and income taxes increased $6.5 million as operating expenses increased 39 percent to $103.6 million in 2005. Mortgage acquisitions and originations remained substantially unchanged from period to period however personnel expenses increased 19 percent to $56.2 million in 2005 as compared to $47.1 million for 2004, as a result of increasing staff levels as needed by higher production levels starting in 2004 as well as an increase in infrastructure costs in information technology and internal audit required for compliance to Sarbanes Oxley regulations. Also included in non interest expense are legal and professional fees which increased 197 percent to $10.4 million as compared to $3.5 million for 2004, business promotion expenses which increased 159 percent to $7.5 million as compared to $2.9 million for 2004 and general and administrative expenses which increased to $11.4 million as compared to $8.7 million for 2004. Operating expenses are partially offset when netted against income taxes as the mortgage operations recorded a tax benefit of $3.3 million for 2005 as compared to a tax expense of $20.9 million in 2004 million primarily due to an increase in operating losses at IFC. Commercial Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net interest income $ 158 Non interest income 5,602 Non interest expense and income taxes 13,525 Net loss $ (7,765 ) On January 1, 2006, we elected to convert Impac Commercial Capital Corporation "ICCC" from a qualified REIT subsidiary to a taxable REIT subsidiary. Therefore, there is no corresponding year over year comparison. Net loss for the commercial operations was $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Non interest income was $5.6 million in 2006 as a result of gains on loans sold to IMH, which generated gains for ICCC of $17.9 million, offset by the change in fair value of derivative instruments which was $12.3 million during 2006. The amount of market valuation adjustment on derivative instruments is the result of changes in the expectation of future interest rates. Additionally, non interest expense was $12.1 million and income taxes were $1.5 million. The commercial operations are reflected as a stand alone entity for segment financial reporting purposes; however, on the consolidated financial statements inter company loan sales and related gains are eliminated. 72 The commercial operations provide high credit quality loans which historically have had lower default rates and longer lives. The Company has increased the commercial loan originations by 23 percent during 2006, compared to 2005. Warehouse Lending Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 34,509 $ 55,725 $ (21,216 ) (38 )% Provision for loan losses (85 ) (85 ) (100 ) Non interest income 3,516 7,760 (4,244 ) (55 ) Non interest expense and income taxes 7,539 7,542 (3 ) (0 ) Net earnings $ 30,571 $ 55,943 $ (25,372 ) (45 )% The warehouse lending operations primarily generate net earnings from net interest income earned from the difference between its cost of borrowings and the interest earned on warehouse advances and, to a lesser extent, fees from warehouse lending transactions. The warehouse lending operations provide warehouse financing to affiliated companies, including the mortgage operations, the commercial operations, the long term investment operations and to approved, non affiliated clients, some of which are correspondents of the mortgage and or commercial operations. Net earnings from the warehouse lending operations decreased $25.4 million (45 percent) primarily due to a $21.2 million decrease in net interest income. Net interest income decreased during 2006 as average finance receivables outstanding decreased $77.3 million during 2006. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 55,725 $ 45,822 $ 9,903 22 % Provision for loan losses 6,076 (6,076 ) (100 ) Non interest income 7,760 10,592 (2,832 ) (27 ) Non interest expense and income taxes 7,542 6,899 643 9 Net earnings $ 55,943 $ 43,439 $ 12,504 29 % Net earnings from the warehouse lending operations were $55.9 million for 2005 as compared to $43.4 million for 2004. The increase in net earnings of $12.5 million was primarily due to a $10.0 million increase in net interest income to $55.7 million during 2005 as compared to $45.8 million during 2004. Net interest income rose for 2005 as one month LIBOR rates increased approximately 200 basis points resulting in higher interest earnings on warehouse advances to affiliated companies. Additionally, net interest income rose 22 percent on year over year basis as total average finance receivables rose 22 percent to $2.8 billion during 2005 as compared to $2.3 billion during 2004. Net earnings were negatively impacted during 2004 as the warehouse lending operations added $6.1 million to loan loss provisions during 2004 as fraudulent warehouse advances were discovered in 2004 which were 73 determined to be impaired. By year end 2004, the warehouse lending operations had a specific allowance for loan losses of $10.7 million for impaired warehouse advances. For calculation of estimated taxable income, deductions for permanently impaired mortgages were taken as a deduction to estimated taxable income for 2004. Refer to Note J. "Segment Reporting" in the notes to consolidated financial statements for financial results of the operating segments and see Item 1. Business for additional detail regarding the operating structure. Liquidity and Capital Resources We recognize the need to have funds available for our operating businesses and our customers demands for obtaining short term warehouse financing until the settlement or sale of mortgages with us or with other investors. It is our policy to have adequate liquidity at all times to cover normal cyclical swings in funding availability and mortgage demand and to allow us to meet abnormal and unexpected funding requirements. We plan to meet liquidity through normal operations with the goal of avoiding unplanned sales of assets or emergency borrowing of funds. Toward this goal, our asset/liability committee, or "ALCO," is responsible for monitoring our liquidity position and funding needs. ALCO participants include senior executives of the mortgage operations, commercial operations and warehouse lending operations. ALCO meets on a weekly basis to review current and projected sources and uses of funds. ALCO monitors the composition of the balance sheet for changes in the liquidity of our assets. Our primary liquidity consists of cash and cash equivalents; short term securities available for sale and maturing mortgages, or "liquid assets." We believe that current cash balances, short term investments, currently available financing facilities, capital raising capabilities and excess cash flows generated from our long term mortgage portfolio will adequately provide for projected funding needs and limited asset growth. Refer to Item 1.A "Business Risk Factors" for additional information regarding risks that could adversely affect our liquidity. Our operating businesses primarily use available funds as follows: acquisition and origination of mortgages by the mortgage and commercial operations; long term investment in mortgages by the long term investment operations; provide short term warehouse advances by the warehouse lending operations; pay interest on debt; distribute common and preferred stock dividends; and pay operating and non operating expenses. Acquisition and origination of mortgages by the mortgage and long term investment operations. During 2006, the mortgage and commercial operations originated or acquired $12.6 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages, of which $5.8 billion were retained by the long term investment operations from the mortgage and commercial operations for long term investment. Capital invested in mortgages is outstanding until we sell or securitize mortgages, which is one of the reasons we attempt to sell or securitize mortgages within 90 days of acquisition or origination. Initial capital invested in mortgages includes premiums paid when mortgages are acquired and originated and our capital investment, or "haircut," required upon financing, which is generally determined by the type of collateral provided. The mortgage operations acquired and originated $11.6 billion of residential mortgages at a weighted average price of 101.68, which were financed with warehouse borrowings from the warehouse lending operations at a haircut generally between 2 percent to 15 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the mortgages. In addition, ICCC originated $983.4 million of commercial mortgages at a weighted average price of 100.02 which were initially financed with short term reverse repurchase financing from the warehouse lending operations at a haircut of generally 3 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the mortgages. Long term investment in mortgages by the long term investment operations. The long term investment operations acquire primarily Alt A mortgages from the mortgage and commercial operations and finance them with 74 reverse repurchase borrowings from the warehouse lending operations at substantially the same terms as the mortgage and commercial operations. When the long term investment operations finance mortgages with long term securitized mortgage borrowings, short term reverse repurchase financing is repaid. Then, depending on credit ratings from national credit rating agencies on our securitized mortgages, we are generally required to provide an over collateralization, or "OC", of 0.35 percent to 1 percent of the principal balance of mortgages securing securitized mortgage financing as compared to a haircut of 2 percent to 10 percent of the principal balance of mortgages securing short term reverse repurchase financing. Our total capital investment in securitized mortgages generally ranges from approximately 2 percent to 5 percent of the principal balance of mortgages securing securitized mortgage borrowings which includes premiums paid upon acquisition of mortgages from the mortgage operations, costs paid for completion of securitized mortgages, costs to acquire derivatives and OC required to achieve desired credit ratings. Commercial mortgages are financed on a long term basis with securitized mortgage borrowings at substantially the same rates and terms as Alt A mortgages. Commercial loans generally have a 3 percent haircut on reverse repurchase lines and initial over collateralization target of 2.75 percent to 3.37 percent Provide short term warehouse advances by the warehouse lending operations. We utilize committed and uncommitted reverse repurchase facilities with various lenders to provide short term warehouse financing to affiliates and non affiliated clients of the warehouse lending operations. The warehouse lending operations provide short term financing to the mortgage and commercial operations and non affiliated clients from the closing of mortgages to their sale or other settlement with investors. The warehouse lending operations generally finance between 90 percent and 98 percent of the fair market value of the principal balance of mortgages, which equates to a haircut requirement of between 10 percent and 2 percent, respectively, at one month LIBOR, plus a spread. The mortgage and commercial operations have uncommitted warehouse line agreements to obtain financing from the warehouse lending operations at one month LIBOR plus a spread during the period that the mortgage operation accumulate mortgages until the mortgages are securitized or sold. As of December 31, 2006, the mortgage and commercial operations had $1.4 billion and $180.4 million, respectively, of warehouse advances outstanding with the warehouse lending operations. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, the warehouse lending operations had $724.0 million of approved warehouse lines available to non affiliated clients, of which $306.3 million was outstanding. Our ability to meet liquidity requirements and the financing needs of our customers is subject to the renewal of our credit and repurchase facilities or obtaining other sources of financing, if required, including additional debt or equity from time to time. Any decision our lenders or investors make to provide available financing to us in the future will depend upon a number of factors, including: our compliance with the terms of our existing credit arrangements; our financial performance; industry and market trends in our various businesses; the general availability of, and rates applicable to, financing and investments; our lenders or investors resources and policies concerning loans and investments; and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. Pay common and preferred stock dividends and trust preferred payments. We paid common stock dividends of $72.3 million and preferred stock dividends of $14.7 million during 2006, which we generated from our operating activities. We are required to distribute a minimum of 90 percent of our taxable income to our stockholders in order to maintain our REIT status, exclusive of the application of any tax loss carry forwards that may be used to offset current period taxable income. Because we pay dividends based on taxable income, dividends may be more or less than net earnings. We paid total regular cash dividends of $0.95 per common share in 2006 which met taxable income distribution requirements for the year. We also paid interest of $9.3 million attributable to the junior subordinated debt issued by the Company in connection with our trust preferred offerings. See "Issuance of Common and Preferred Stock" for a discussion of the terms of our outstanding series of preferred 75 stock and "Note U Trust Preferred Securities" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. A portion of dividends paid to IMHs stockholders came from dividend distributions from the mortgage and commercial operations, a taxable REIT subsidiary, to IMH. During 2006, the mortgage and commercial operations provided a combined dividend distribution of $7.4 million to IMH. Because the mortgage and commercial operations may seek to retain earnings to fund the acquisition and origination of mortgages or to expand their operations, the board of directors of our taxable REIT subsidiaries may decide that the mortgage and commercial operations should cease making dividend distributions in the future. This could reduce the amount of taxable income that would be distributed to IMH stockholders in the form of dividend payment amounts. Our operating businesses are primarily funded as follows: Securitized mortgage borrowings and reverse repurchase agreements; excess cash flows from our long term mortgage portfolio; sale and securitization of mortgages; cash proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred stock; and cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Reverse repurchase agreements and securitized mortgage borrowings. We use reverse repurchase agreements to fund substantially all financing to affiliates and non affiliated clients and for the acquisition and origination of Alt A and commercial mortgages. As we accumulate mortgages, we finance the acquisition of mortgages primarily through borrowings on reverse repurchase facilities with third party lenders. We primarily use uncommitted and committed facilities with major investment banks to finance substantially all warehouse financing, as needed. During 2006 the reverse repurchase facilities borrowing limits amounted to $5.7 billion, of which $1.9 billion was outstanding at December 31, 2006. The warehouse facilities provide us with a higher aggregate credit limit to fund the acquisition and origination of mortgages at terms comparable to those we have received in the past. These warehouse facilities may have certain covenant tests which we are required to satisfy. For a discussion of the Companys compliance with its financial covenants see "Note I Reverse Repurchase Agreements" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we may also receive additional uncommitted interim financing from our lenders in excess of our permanent borrowing limits to finance mortgages during the accumulation phase and prior to securitizations or whole loan sales. From time to time, we may also utilize term reverse repurchase financing provided to us by underwriters who underwrite some of our securitizations. The term reverse repurchase financing funds mortgages that are specifically allocated to securitization transactions, which allows us to reduce overall borrowings outstanding on reverse repurchase agreements with other lenders during the period immediately prior to the settlement of the securitization. Terms and interest rates on the term reverse repurchase facilities are generally lower than on other reverse repurchase agreements. Term reverse repurchase financing are generally repaid within 30 days from the date funds are advanced. We expect to continue to use short term reverse repurchase facilities to fund the acquisition of mortgages. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell, on a whole loan basis, the mortgages securing these facilities, which, depending upon market conditions may result in substantial losses. Additionally, if for any reason the market value of our mortgages securing reverse repurchase facilities decline, our lenders may require us to provide them with additional equity or collateral to secure our borrowings, which may require us to sell mortgages at substantial losses. 76  In order to mitigate the liquidity risk associated with reverse repurchase agreements, we attempt to sell or securitize our mortgages within 90 days from acquisition or origination. Although securitizing mortgages more frequently adds operating and securitization costs, we believe the added cost is offset as liquidity is provided more frequently with less interest rate and price volatility, as the accumulation and holding period of mortgages is shortened. When we have accumulated a sufficient amount of mortgages, we seek to issue securitized mortgages and convert short term advances under reverse repurchase agreements to long term securitized mortgage borrowings. The use of securitized mortgage borrowings provides the following benefits: allows us to use long term financing for the duration of the securitized mortgage asset secured by the underlying mortgages; and eliminates margin calls on the borrowings that are converted from reverse repurchase agreements to securitized mortgage borrowings as well as associated derivatives used to manage interest rate risks on securitized mortgage borrowings. During 2006, we securitized $5.9 billion of mortgages to provide long term financing for the retention of $5.3 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and $526.6 million of commercial mortgages. Because of the credit profile, historical loss performance and prepayment characteristics of our Alt A mortgages, we have been able to borrow a higher percentage against the principal balance of mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral, which means that we have to provide less initial capital upon completion of securitized mortgages. Capital investment in the securitized mortgages is established at the time securitized mortgages are issued at levels sufficient to achieve desired credit ratings on the securities from credit rating agencies. Excess cash flows from our long term mortgage portfolio. We receive excess cash flows on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral after distributions are made to investors on securitized mortgage borrowings to the extent cash or other collateral required to maintain desired credit ratings on the securitized mortgages is fulfilled and can be used to provide funding for some of the long term investment operations activities. Excess cash flows represent the difference between principal and interest payments on the underlying mortgages, adjusted by the following: servicing and master servicing fees paid; premiums paid to mortgage insurers; cash payments / receipts on derivatives; interest paid on securitized mortgage borrowings; pro rata early principal prepayments paid on securitized mortgage borrowings; OC requirements; actual losses, net of any gains incurred upon disposition of other real estate owned or acquired in settlement of defaulted mortgages; unpaid interest shortfall; basis risk shortfall; bond writedowns reinstated; and residual cashflow. Sale and securitization of mortgages. We sell and securitize loans in the following ways: When the mortgage and commercial operations accumulate a sufficient amount of mortgages that are intended to be deposited into a securitized mortgage trust, it sells the mortgages to the long term investment operations; 77 When selling mortgages on a whole loan basis, the mortgage operations will accumulate mortgages and enter into sales transactions with third party investors on a monthly basis; and The mortgage and commercial operations sold $5.8 billion of mortgages to the long term investment operations during 2006 and sold $7.1 billion of mortgages to third party investors and through un consolidated REMICs and whole loan sales. The mortgage operations sold mortgage servicing rights on all mortgages sold during 2006. The sale of mortgage servicing rights generated substantially all of its cash, which was used to acquire and originate additional mortgage assets. Since we rely significantly upon sales and securitizations to generate cash proceeds to repay borrowings and to create credit availability, any disruption in our ability to complete sales and securitizations may require us to utilize other sources of financing, which, if available at all, may be on less favorable terms. In addition, delays in closing sales and securitizations of our mortgages increase our risk by exposing us to credit and interest rate risk for this extended period of time. Issuance of Common and Preferred Stock. We have a shelf registration statement that allows us to sell up to $1.0 billion of securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants. By issuing new shares periodically throughout the year, we believe that we were able to utilize new capital more efficiently and profitably. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a common stock sales agreement with Brinson Patrick Securities Corporation (Brinson Patrick) for the sale of up to 7.5 million shares of its common stock from time to time through Brinson Patrick as sales agent. As of December 31, 2005, we sold 363,700 shares of common stock and received net proceeds of $4.2 million. Brinson Patrick received a commission of 3 percent of the gross sales price per share of the shares of common stock sold pursuant to the sales agreement, which amounted to an aggregate commission of $131,000. No shares were sold during 2006. On September 30, 2005, the Company also entered into a Preferred Stock sales agreement with Brinson Patrick, for the sale of up to 800,000 shares of its 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series C Preferred Stock) from time to time through Brinson Patrick as sales agent. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we sold 72,800 shares of Series C Preferred Stock, and received net proceeds of approximately $1.7 million. Brinson Patrick received a commission of 3 percent of the gross sales price per share of the shares of preferred stock sold pursuant to the sales agreement, which amounted to an aggregate commission of $52,000. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we sold 60,100 shares, received net proceeds of $1.4 million and paid an aggregate commission of $43,000. In May 2004, we completed the sale of 2.0 million shares of 9.375% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25.00 per share, or "series B preferred stock." Dividends on the series B preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year. The shares of series B preferred stock have no stated maturity, are not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption and are not convertible into any other securities. Holders of shares of series B preferred stock generally have no voting rights, but will have limited voting rights if the Company fails to pay dividends for six or more quarters and in certain other events. The Company may not redeem the series B preferred stock until May 29, 2009 except in limited circumstance to preserve the Companys status as a real estate investment trust. On or after May 29, 2009, the Company may, at its option, redeem the series B preferred stock in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, for cash at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared), if any, to and including the redemption date. In November and December, 2004, we completed the sale of an aggregate of 4.3 million shares of 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25.00 per share, or "series C preferred stock." We have also sold 72,800 and 71,200 shares of series C preferred stock during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends on the series C preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year. The shares of series C preferred stock have no stated maturity, are not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption and are not convertible into any other securities. Holders of shares of series C preferred stock generally have no voting rights, but will have limited voting rights if the Company fails to pay dividends for six or more quarters and in certain other events. The Company may not redeem the series C preferred stock until November 23, 2009 except in limited circumstances to preserve the 78 Companys status as a real estate investment trust. On or after November 23, 2009, the Company may, at its option, redeem the series C preferred stock in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, for cash at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared), if any, to and including the redemption date. Cash proceeds from the issuance of trust preferred securities. During 2005, the Company formed four wholly owned trust subsidiaries (Trusts) for the purpose of issuing an aggregate of $99.2 million of trust preferred securities (the Trust Preferred Securities). The proceeds from the sale thereof were invested in junior subordinated debt issued by the Company. All proceeds from the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities and the common securities issued by the Trusts are invested in junior subordinated notes (Notes), which are the sole assets of the Trusts. The Trusts pay dividends on the Trust Preferred Securities at the same rate as paid by the Company on the Notes held by the Trusts. The Company received net proceeds of $93.2 million from the issuance of the trust preferred securities. See Note U to the consolidated financial statements for a further description of the trust preferred securities. Cash proceeds from the issuance of stock options. During 2006 and 2005, the Company received $755 thousand and $6.4 million in cash proceeds, respectively, from the issuance of common stock associated with the exercise of stock options. The changes in cash flows for operating, investing and financing activities, presents the 2005 and 2004 restated cash flows. The Company restated the cashflow statements for 2005 and 2004 to eliminate the effects of intercompany transfers of loans. Operating Activities. Net cash used in operating activities was $5.0 billion for 2006 as compared to $13.1 billion for 2005 and $17.1 billion for 2004. For 2006, the purchase of mortgages, of $12.7 billion was the primary use of cash in operating activities. Funds used in operating activities during 2006 were partially offset by sales of mortgages of $7.4 billion. Investing Activities. Net cash provided by investing activities was $9.1 billion for 2006 as compared to $9.3 billion for 2005 and $4.3 billion for 2004. For 2006, 2005 and 2004 net cash of $9.0 billion, $9.9 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively, was provided by principal repayments on our securitized mortgage collateral. Financing Activities. Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was $(4.1) billion for 2006, $3.6 billion for 2005 and $13.0 billion for 2004. For 2006, 2005 and 2004, net cash (used in) provided by as a result of securitized mortgage financing, net of principal repayments was $(3.5) billion, $2.7 billion and $12.7 billion, respectively. Inflation The consolidated financial statements and corresponding notes to the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of our operations during each of 2006, 2005 and 2004. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on our performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Inflation affects our operations primarily through its effect on interest rates, since interest rates normally increase during periods of high inflation and decrease during periods of low inflation. During periods of increasing interest rates, demand for mortgages and a borrowers ability to qualify for mortgage financing in a purchase transaction may be adversely affected. During periods of decreasing interest rates, borrowers may prepay their mortgages, which in turn may adversely affect our yield and subsequently the value of our portfolio of mortgage assets. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we sold whole pools of loans with recourse for borrower defaults. When whole pools are sold as opposed to securitized, the third party has recourse against us for certain borrower defaults. Because the loans are no longer on our balance sheet, the recourse component is considered a guarantee. During 2006, we sold $6.3 billion of loans with recourse for borrower defaults compared to $8.1 billion in 2005. We maintained a $15.3 million reserve related to these guarantees as of December 31, 2006 compared with a 79 reserve of $10.4 million as of December 31, 2005. During 2006 we paid $183.8 million in cash to repurchase loans sold to third parties. In 2005, we paid $29.7 million in cash to repurchase loans sold to third parties in prior periods. We subsequently finance or sell the repurchased loans. See disclosures in the consolidated notes to the financial statements under "Commitments and Contingencies" for other arrangements that qualify as off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2006, we had the following contractual obligations (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less than one year One to Three Years Three to Five Years More than Five Years Securitized mortgage borrowings (1) $ 20,563,911 $ 8,225,853 $ 7,349,986 $ 3,100,915 $ 1,887,157 Reverse repurchase agreements 1,880,395 1,880,395 Rate locked mortgage pipeline 772,738 772,738 Trust preferred securities 96,250 96,250 Premises operating lease agreements 77,841 10,879 16,737 15,160 35,064 Total Contractual Obligations $ 23,391,135 $ 10,889,865 $ 7,366,723 $ 3,116,075 $ 2,018,471 (1)Payments on securitized mortgage borrowings are based on anticipated receipts of principal on underlying mortgage loan collateral using expected prepayment rates. If actual mortgage prepayment rates differ from our estimates, the payment amounts will vary from the reported amounts. For additional information regarding our commitments refer to "Note J Securitized Mortgage Borrowings" and "Note P Commitments and Contingencies" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS The following table displays our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends (1)(2): For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 restated restated restated restated Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (4) 1.26 1.63 1.73 1.32 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends (4) 1.24 1.61 1.73 (3) 1.32 (3) (1)Earnings used in computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges consist of net earnings before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest expense on debt and the portion of rental expense deemed to represent the interest factor. (2)Financial information for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 reflect accounting restatements and reclassifications for prior periods. In addition, prior to the consolidation of IFC on July 1, 2003, the method used to calculate the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends reflected the consolidated net earnings of IMH less net earnings of IFC plus dividend distributions from IFC to IMH. (3)No preferred stock dividends were paid during these periods as we did not have any preferred stock outstanding. (4)Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges. The amount of the deficiency for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $77.1 million. 80  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK General Overview Although we manage credit, prepayment and liquidity risk in the normal course of business, we consider interest rate risk to be a significant market risk, which could potentially have the largest material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Since a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from net interest income, we strive to manage our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities to generate what we believe to be an appropriate contribution from net interest income. When interest rates fluctuate, profitability can be adversely affected by changes in the fair market value of our assets and liabilities and by the interest spread earned on interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. We derive income from the differential spread between interest earned on interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities. Any change in interest rates affects income received and income paid from assets and liabilities in varying and typically in unequal amounts. Changing interest rates may compress or widen our interest rate margins and affect overall earnings. Interest rate risk management is the responsibility of the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), which is comprised of senior management and reports results of interest rate risk analysis to the IMH board of directors on at least a quarterly basis. ALCO establishes policies that monitor and coordinate sources, uses and pricing of funds. ALCO also attempts to reduce the volatility in net interest income by managing the relationship of interest rate sensitive assets to interest rate sensitive liabilities. In addition, various modeling techniques are used to value interest sensitive mortgage backed securities, including interest only securities. The value of investment securities available for sale is determined using a discounted cash flow model using prepayment rate, discount rate and credit loss assumptions. Our investment securities portfolio is available for sale, which requires us to perform market valuations of the securities in order to properly record the portfolio. We continually monitor interest rates of our investment securities portfolio as compared to prevalent interest rates in the market. We do not currently maintain a securities trading portfolio and are not exposed to market risk as it relates to trading activities. Changes in Interest Rates Interest rate risk management policies are intended to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates primarily associated with cash flows on our adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. Our primary objective is to limit our exposure to the variability in future cash flows attributable to the variability of one month LIBOR, which is the underlying index of our adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. We also monitor on an ongoing basis the prepayment risks that arise in fluctuating interest rate environments. Our interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset potential adverse effects of changing interest rates on cash flows on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. We primarily acquire for long term investment ARMs and hybrid ARMs and, FRMs. ARMs are generally subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. This means that the interest rate of each ARM is limited to upwards or downwards movements on its periodic interest rate adjustment date, generally six months, or over the life of the mortgage. Periodic caps limit the maximum interest rate change, which can occur on any interest rate change date to generally a maximum of 1 percent per semiannual adjustment. Also, each ARM has a maximum lifetime interest rate cap. Generally, borrowings are not subject to the same periodic or lifetime interest rate limitations. During a period of rapidly increasing or decreasing interest rates, financing costs could increase or decrease at a faster rate than the periodic interest rate adjustments on mortgages would allow, which could affect net interest income. In addition, if market rates were to exceed the maximum interest rate limits of our ARMs, borrowing costs could increase while interest rates on ARMs would remain constant. We also acquire hybrid ARMs that have initial fixed interest rate periods generally ranging from two to seven years which subsequently convert to ARMs. During a rapidly increasing or decreasing interest rate environment financing costs would increase or decrease more rapidly than would interest rates on mortgages, which would remain fixed until their next interest rate adjustment date. In order to provide protection against potential resulting basis risk shortfall on the related liabilities, we purchase derivatives. The use of derivatives to manage risk associated with changes in interest rates is an integral part of our strategy. The amount of cash payments or cash receipts on derivatives is determined by (1) the notional amount of the derivative and (2) current interest rate levels in relation to the various strikes or coupons of derivatives during a 81 particular time period. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had notional balances of interest rate swaps, caps, and floors of $19.5 billion and $20.2 billion, respectively, with net fair values of $132.5 million and $248.2 million, respectively, pertaining to our current and pending securitizations. By using derivatives, we attempt to minimize the effect of both upward and downward interest rate changes on our long term mortgage portfolio. Our goal is to moderate significant changes to base case net interest income, including net cash flows from derivatives, as interest rates change. We primarily acquire swaps to essentially convert our adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings into fixed rate borrowings. For instance, we receive one month LIBOR on swaps, which offsets interest expense on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings, and we pay a fixed interest rate. The interest rate risk profile of our balance sheet is more sensitive to changes in interest rates related to our liabilities. We use derivatives extensively in order to manage the interest rate, or price risk, inherent in our assets, liabilities and loan commitments. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to moderate the effect of changes in interest rates on our earnings over time. Our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term. The success of our interest rate risk management strategy is largely dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of our loan production operation and long term investment operations in various interest rate environments. There are many market factors that affect the performance of our interest rate risk management activities including interest rate volatility, prepayment behavior, the shape of the yield curve and the spread between mortgage interest rates and treasury or swap rates. The success of this strategy affects our net earnings. This effect, which can be either positive or negative, can be material. We measure the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in interest rates affecting interest sensitive assets and liabilities using various simulations. These simulations take into consideration changes that may occur in investment and financing strategies, the forward yield curve, interest rate risk management strategies, mortgage prepayment speeds and the volume of mortgage acquisitions and originations. As part of various interest rate simulations, we calculate the effect of potential changes in interest rates on our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and their affect on overall earnings. The simulations assume instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates and to what degree those shifts affect net interest income. The following table estimates the financial effect to base case, including net cash flow from derivatives, from various instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates based on both our consolidated structure and un consolidated structure, which refers to the notional amount of derivatives that are not recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollar amounts in millions): Changes in base case as of December 31, 2006 (1) Excluding net cash flow on derivatives Net cash flow on derivatives Including net cash flow on derivatives Instantaneous and Parallel Change in Interest Rates (2) $ (%) $ $ (%) Up 300 basis points, or 3% (3) (351.9 ) (357 ) 332.0 (20.0 ) (10 ) Up 200 basis points, or 2% (224.4 ) (228 ) 221.3 (3.2 ) (2 ) Up 100 basis points, or 1% (108.5 ) (110 ) 110.6 2.1 2 Down 100 basis points or 1% 83.8 85 (108.6 ) (24.8 ) (13 ) Down 200 basis points or 2% 159.5 162 (217.0 ) (57.5 ) (29 ) Down 300 basis points or 3% 230.2 233 (325.4 ) (95.2 ) (47 ) 82 Changes in base case as of December 31, 2005 (1) Excluding net cash flow on derivatives Net cash flow on derivatives Including net cash flow on derivatives Instantaneous and Parallel Change in Interest Rates (2) $ (%) $ $ (%) Up 300 basis points, or 3% (3) (394.0 ) 1,340 367.0 (27.0 ) (21 ) Up 200 basis points, or 2% (263.2 ) 895 244.6 (18.5 ) (14 ) Up 100 basis points, or 1% (129.9 ) 442 122.3 (7.6 ) (6 ) Down 100 basis points or 1% 125.8 (428 ) (122.3 ) 3.4 3 Down 200 basis points or 2% 251.8 (856 ) (244.6 ) 7.1 6 Down 300 basis points or 3% 379.3 1,290 (366.6 ) 12.6 10 (1)The dollar and percentage changes represent base case for the next twelve months versus the change in base case using various instantaneous and parallel interest rate change simulations, excluding the effect of amortization of loan discounts to base case. (2)Instantaneous and parallel interest rate changes over and under the projected forward yield curve. (3)This simulation was added to our analysis as it is relevant in light of the interest rate environment as of December 31, 2006 and 2007 and the projected forward yield curves for 2006 and 2007. In the previous table, the up 100 basis point scenario as of December 31, 2006 represents our projection of the net change from base case net interest income, which is derived from assumptions as previously discussed, if market interest rates were to immediately decline by 100 basis points. This means that we increase interest rates at all data points along our projected forward yield curve by 100 basis points and recalculate our projection of net interest income over the next 12 months. In addition, based on changes in interest rates, or changes in our forward yield curve, our model adjusts mortgage prepayment rates and recalculates amortization of acquisition and securitization costs and net cash receipts or payments on derivates as part of the calculation of net interest income. Thus, if a 100 basis point interest rate increase occurred, the projected volatility to net interest income is positively impacted through our use of derivatives. We estimated net interest income along with net cash flows from derivatives for the next twelve months using balance sheet data, the notional amount of derivatives as of December 31, 2006 and 12 month projections of the following primary drivers affecting net interest income: future interest rates using forward yield curves, which are considered market consensus estimates of future interest rates; mortgage acquisition and originations; mortgage prepayment rate assumptions; and forward swap rates. We refer to the 12 month projection of net interest income along with the 12 month projection of net cash flows on derivatives as the "base case." For financial reporting purposes, net cash flows from derivatives are included in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments on the consolidated financial statements. However, for purposes of interest rate risk analysis we include net cash flows from derivatives in our base case simulations as we acquire derivatives to offset the effect that changes in interest rates have on variable borrowing costs, such as securitized mortgage and warehouse borrowings. We believe that including net cash flows from derivatives in our interest rate risk analysis presents a more useful simulation of the effect of changing interest rates on net cash flows generated by our long term mortgage portfolio. Once the base case has been established, we "shock" the base case with instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates in 100 basis point increments upward and downward. Calculations are made for each of the defined instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates over or under the forward yield curve used to determine the base case and include any associated changes in projected mortgage prepayment rates caused by changes in interest rates. The results of each 100 basis point change in interest rates are then compared against the base case to determine the estimated dollar and percentage change to base case. The simulations consider the affect of interest rate changes on interest sensitive assets and liabilities as well as derivatives. The simulations also consider the impact that instantaneous and parallel shift in interest rates have on prepayment rates and the resulting affect of accelerating or decelerating amortization of premium and securitization costs. 83  Over the past year, the interest rate risk profile shifted from modestly liability sensitive to modestly asset sensitive. This occurred as part of a deliberate and long term optimization strategy of accumulating hedged mortgage assets during 2006. Other factors contributing to the shift in the interest rate risk profile include the increase in the overall level of interest rates, the flattening of the yield curve and changes in expected prepayment behavior. However, since our estimates are based upon numerous assumptions, actual sensitivity to interest rate changes could vary if actual experience differs from the assumptions used. The following table presents the extent to which changes in interest rates and changes in the volume of interest rate sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities have affected interest income and interest expense during the periods indicated. Information is provided on mortgage assets and borrowings on mortgage assets, only, with respect to the following: changes attributable to changes in volume (changes in volume multiplied by prior rate); changes attributable to changes in rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume); changes in interest due to both rate and volume; and net change. Year Ended December 31, 2006 over 2005 Volume Rate Rate/Volume Net Change (in thousands) Increase (decrease) in: Subordinated securities collateralized by mortgages $ (387 ) $ 3,909 $ (915 ) $ 2,607 Mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral (83,557 ) 155,569 (12,243 ) 59,769 Mortgages held for investment and held for sale (44,682 ) 3,940 (1,079 ) (41,821 ) Finance receivables (4,452 ) 6,504 (1,424 ) 628 Change in interest income on mortgage assets (133,078 ) 169,922 (15,661 ) 21,183 Securitized mortgage borrowings (75,824 ) 369,722 (30,480 ) 263,418 Reverse repurchase agreements (32,096 ) 39,788 (10,489 ) (2,797 ) Change in interest expense on borrowings on mortgage assets (107,920 ) 409,510 (40,969 ) 260,621 Change in net interest income on mortgage assets $ (25,158 ) $ (239,588 ) $ 25,308 $ (239,438 ) Year Ended December 31, 2005 over 2004 Volume Rate Rate/Volume Net Change (in thousands) Increase (decrease) in: Subordinated securities collateralized by mortgages $ 1,497 $ (2,579 ) $ (1,026 ) $ (2,108 ) Mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral 383,337 36,804 22,800 442,941 Mortgages held for investment and held for sale 43,179 10,059 4,107 57,345 Finance receivables (7,740 ) 4,422 (1,368 ) (4,686 ) Change in interest income on mortgage assets 420,273 48,706 24,513 493,492 Securitized mortgage borrowings 217,886 215,106 132,193 565,185 Reverse repurchase agreements 14,756 39,169 9,993 63,918 Change in interest expense on borrowings on mortgage assets 232,642 254,275 142,186 629,103 Change in net interest income on mortgage assets $ 187,631 $ (205,569 ) $ (117,673 ) $ (135,611 )  
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contain certain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Refer to Item 1. "Business Forward Looking Statements" for a complete description of forward looking statements. All of our businesses actively work together to deliver comprehensive mortgage and lending services to our correspondents, mortgage bankers and brokers, retail customers and capital market investors through a wide array of mortgage loan programs using web based technology and centralized operations so that we can provide high levels of customer service at low per loan operating costs. We elect to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, which generally allows us to pass through income to stockholders without payment of federal income tax at the corporate level. Our goal is to generate consistent and reliable income for distribution to our stockholders primarily from the earnings of our core operating businesses, which include the long term investment operations, mortgage operations, commercial operations, and warehouse lending operations. Refer to Item 1. "Business" for additional information on our businesses and operating segments. Summary of 2006 Financial and Operating Results Net (Loss) Earnings of $(75.3) million for 2006 Compared to $270.3 million for 2005. Estimated taxable income per diluted common share was $1.05 for 2006 as compared to actual taxable income per diluted common share of $1.87 for 2005. See the "Estimated Taxable Income available to IMH Common Stockholders" table for the calculation of estimated taxable income. Cash dividends paid during 2006 were $0.95 per common share as compared to $1.95 per common share for 2005. Total assets as of December 31, 2006 were $23.6 billion compared to $27.7 billion as of December 31, 2005. Book value per common share was $11.15 as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $13.24 as of prior year end. The mortgage operations acquired or originated approximately $11.6 billion of primarily non conforming Alt A mortgages during 2006, as compared to $22.3 billion for 2005. The commercial operations originated approximately $983.4 million of commercial and multifamily loans during 2006, as compared to $798.5 million acquired or originated by the REIT in 2005. The long term investment operations retained approximately $5.3 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and $526.6 million commercial mortgages compared to $12.2 billion and $798.5 million, respectively, for 2005. Restated Consolidated Financial Statements for 2005 and 2004 Certain amounts in the 2005 and 2004 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows have been restated to properly reflect specific intercompany activities related to cash receipts from loan sales and cash disbursements for loan purchases between consolidated companies. Such intercompany loan sale and purchase transaction activities had the effect of presenting separate cash inflows and outflows even though there was no cash inflow or outflow on a consolidated basis. This restatement serves to eliminate this intercompany activity from its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and present them as non cash transactions. The correction of the error increases cash used in operating activities and increases cash provided by investing activities. The restatement of these transactions does not change total cash and cash equivalents as reported for December 31, 2005 and 2004. Furthermore, the restatement has no effect on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Earnings, Consolidated Balance Sheets or Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity. 46 In addition, certain amounts within the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Earnings have been restated to reflect the "Amortization of deferred charge" for 2005 and 2004 as income tax expense (benefit) rather than non interest expense. The "Amortization of deferred charge" relates to income taxes on intercompany gains and this correction is believed to more appropriately reflect the overall income tax charges or benefits during 2005 and 2004. The restatement of this information does not change net earnings as reported for December 31, 2005 and 2004. Furthermore, the restatement has no effect on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as reported. Critical Accounting Policies We define critical accounting policies as those that are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require estimates and assumptions based on our judgment of changing market conditions and the performance of our assets and liabilities at any given time. In determining which accounting policies meet this definition, we considered our policies with respect to the valuation of our assets and liabilities and estimates and assumptions used in determining those valuations. We believe the most critical accounting issues that require the most complex and difficult judgments and that are particularly susceptible to significant change to our financial condition and results of operations include the following: allowance for loan losses; derivative financial instruments; securitization of financial assets as financing versus sale; calculation of repurchase reserve; and, amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs; Allowance for Loan Losses We provide an allowance for loan losses for mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral, finance receivables and mortgages held for investment ("loans provided for"). In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, management takes several items into consideration. For instance, a detailed analysis of historical loan performance data is accumulated and reviewed. This data is analyzed for loss performance and prepayment performance by product type, origination year and securitization issuance. The results of that analysis are then applied to the current mortgage portfolio and an estimate is created. We believe that pooling of mortgages with similar characteristics is an appropriate methodology in which to evaluate the allowance for loan losses. Management also recognizes that there are qualitative factors that must be taken into consideration when evaluating and measuring inherent loss in our loan portfolios. These items include, but are not limited to, economic indicators that may affect the borrowers ability to pay, changes in value of collateral, projected loss curves, political factors and industry statistics. Specific valuation allowances may be established for loans that are deemed impaired, if default by the borrower is deemed probable, and if the fair value of the loan or the collateral is estimated to be less than the gross carrying value of the loan. Actual losses on loans are recorded as a reduction to the allowance through charge offs. Derivative Financial Instruments Rate Lock and Purchase Commitments We enter into commitments to make loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is set prior to funding (rate lock commitments). We also enter into commitments to purchase mortgage loans through our correspondent channel (purchase commitments). Rate lock commitments on mortgage loans that are intended to be sold are considered to be derivatives. In addition, purchase commitments for mortgage loans that are intended to be sold and those that will be held for investment purposes can qualify as derivatives. Both types of commitments to purchase loans are evaluated under the definition of a derivative to determine whether SFAS 133 is applicable. Rate lock and purchase commitments (together "loan commitments") that are considered to be derivatives are recorded 47 at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair value recorded in change in fair value of derivative instruments in the consolidated statements of operations. Unlike most other derivative instruments, there is no active market for the loan commitments that can be used to determine their fair value. Consequently, the Company has developed a method for estimating the fair value of the Companys loan commitments that are considered to be derivatives. The fair value of the loan commitments are determined by calculating the change in market value from the point of commitment date to the measurement date based upon changes in interest rates during the period, and adjusted for an anticipated fallout factor for loan commitments that are not expected to fund. Under this fair value methodology, the loan commitment has zero value on day one and all future value is the result of changes in interest rates, exclusive of any inherent servicing value. Subsequent to the April 1, 2004 issuance of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105 "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments," (SAB 105), when measuring the fair value of interest rate lock commitments, the amount of the expected servicing rights is not included in the valuation. Forward Sale Commitments The policy of recognizing the fair value of the rate lock commitments has the effect of recognizing a gain or loss on the related mortgage loans based on changes in the interest rate environment before the mortgage loans are funded and sold. As such, rate lock commitments expose us to interest rate risk. We mitigate such risk by entering into forward sale commitments, such as mandatory commitments on U.S. Treasury bonds and mortgage backed securities, call options, put options, and whole loan sale commitments. These forward sale commitments are treated as derivatives under SFAS No. 133 with the change in fair value of the derivative instruments reported as such in the consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the Companys forward sale commitments are generally based on market prices provided by dealers, which make markets in these financial instruments. Interest Rate Swaps, Caps, and Floors The Companys primary objective is to limit the exposure to the variability in future cash flows attributable to the variability of one month LIBOR, which is the underlying index of adjustable rate securitized mortgage and short term borrowings under reverse repurchase agreements. The Company also monitors on an ongoing basis the prepayment risks that arise in fluctuating interest rate environments. The Companys interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset the potential adverse effects of changing interest rates on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings. To mitigate exposure to the effect of changing interest rates on cash flows on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings, the Company purchases derivative instruments primarily in the form of interest rate swap agreements (swaps) and, to a lesser extent, interest rate cap agreements (caps) and interest rate floor agreements (floors). The swaps, caps and floors are treated as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS 133, with changes in fair value of derivative instruments reported as such in the consolidated statements of operations. Cash paid or received on swaps, caps and floors is recorded as a current period expense or income as realized gain (loss) on derivative instruments in the consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of the Companys interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other derivative transactions are generally based on market prices provided by dealers, which make markets in these financial instruments. Securitization of Financial Assets as Financing versus Sale Securitizations that are structured as sales provide a onetime contribution to our income or a gain on sale when the mortgage loans are sold to third parties using a securitization trust. We refer to these transactions as "un consolidated" securitizations. We determine the gain on sale by allocating the carrying value of the underlying mortgage loans between loans sold and the interests retained, based on relative fair values. The gain recognized is the difference between the net proceeds of the securitization and the allocated carrying value of the loans sold. Net proceeds consist of cash and any other assets obtained, less any liabilities incurred. Our estimate of the fair value of our net retained interests in these securitizations requires us to exercise significant judgment as to the timing and amount of future cash flows from the retained interests. We are exposed to credit risk from the underlying mortgage 48 loans in un consolidated securitizations to the extent we retain subordinated interests. Changes in expected cash flows resulting from changes in expected net credit losses will impact the value of our subordinated retained interests and those changes are recorded as a component of investment gain or loss. In contrast, for securitizations that are structured as financings, we recognize interest income over the life of the mortgage loans held for investment and interest expense incurred for the borrowings. We refer to these transactions as consolidated securitizations. The mortgage loans collateralizing the debt securities for these financings are included in mortgage loans held for investment and the debt securities payable to investors in these securitizations are included in collateralized borrowings in securitization trusts on our balance sheet. Our recorded liability to repay these borrowings will be reduced to the extent cash flows received from the securitized and pledged assets are less than the recorded liabilities due. We provide for credit losses for the mortgage loans held for investment as they are incurred by establishing or increasing an allowance for loan loss. Whether a securitization is consolidated or un consolidated, investors in the securities issued by the securitization trust have no recourse to our assets or to us and have no ability to require us to repurchase their securities, but rather have recourse only to the assets transferred to the trust. Whereas the accounting differences are significant, the underlying economic impact to us, over time, will be the same whether the securitization is structured consolidated or un consolidated. The mortgage operations recognize gains or losses on the sale of mortgages when the sales transaction settles or upon the securitization of the mortgages when the risks of ownership have passed to the purchasing party. Gains and losses may be increased or decreased by the amount of any servicing related premiums received and costs associated with the acquisition or origination of mortgages. A transfer of financial assets in which control is surrendered is accounted for as a sale to the extent that consideration other than a beneficial interest in the transferred assets is received in the exchange. The long term investment operations structure securitized mortgage securitizations as financing arrangements and recognize no gain or loss on the transfer of mortgage assets. The securitized mortgage securitization trusts do not meet criteria within SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities" (SFAS 140), to be qualifying special purpose entities, and further, are considered variable interest entities under FASB Interpretation No. 46R (FIN 46R) and, therefore, are consolidated by the long term investment operations as the entities primary beneficiary. The mortgage operations generally structure REMIC securitizations as sales and gains and losses are recognized. REMICs which do not meet the sale criteria within SFAS 140 are accounted for as secured borrowing transactions and consolidated under FIN46R to the extent the Company holds a residual interest and thus considered the primary beneficiary. Liabilities and derivatives incurred or obtained at the transfer of financial assets are required to be measured at fair value, if practicable. Also, servicing assets and other retained interests in the transferred assets must be measured by allocating the previous carrying value between the asset sold and the interest retained, if any, based on their relative fair values at the date of transfer. To determine the value of the securities and retained interest, management uses certain analytics and data to estimate future rates of prepayments, prepayment penalties to be received, delinquencies, defaults and default loss severity and their impact on estimated cash flows. Calculation of Repurchase Reserve When we sell loans through whole loan sales we are required to make customary representations and warranties about the loans to the purchaser. Our whole loan sale agreements generally require us to repurchase loans if we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser. In addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or if a payment default occurs on a mortgage loan shortly after its origination. Investors have requested the Company to repurchase loans or to indemnify them against losses on certain loans which the investors believe do not comply with applicable representations or warranties. Upon completion of its own investigation regarding the investor claims, the Company generally repurchases or provides indemnification on certain loans, as appropriate. The Company maintains a liability for expected losses on dispositions of loans expected to be repurchased or on which indemnification is expected to be provided and regularly evaluates the adequacy of this repurchase liability based on trends in repurchase and indemnification requests, actual loss experience, and other relevant factors including economic conditions. 49 The Company calculates the repurchase reserve based on the trailing whole loan sales that still have outstanding standard representations and warranties. The Company applies a historical loss rate to these loans to derive the repurchase reserve. The reserve includes the Companys estimate of losses in the fair value of loans the Company expects it will repurchase. The loss in fair value is predominately determined based on historical LOCOM losses on repurchased loans. During 2006 all of the Companys LOCOM losses which totaled $34.0 million were primarily related to the change in fair value of repurchased loans. The Companys repurchase reserve has increased from the prior year as a result of an increase in the expected loss rate due to increases in foreclosures. This increase was partially offset by decreases in the whole loan sales volume which decreased to $6.3 billion during 2006 compared to $8.1 billion during 2005. Amortization of Loan Premiums and Securitization Costs In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 91, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases" ("SFAS 91"), we amortize the mortgage premiums, securitization costs, bond discounts, and deferred gains/losses to interest income over the estimated lives of the mortgages as an adjustment to yield of the mortgages. Amortization calculations include certain loan information including the interest rate, loan maturity, principal balance and certain assumptions including expected prepayment rates. We estimate prepayments on a collateral specific basis and consider actual prepayment activity for the collateral pool. We also consider the current interest rate environment and the forward market curve projections. Taxable Income Estimated taxable income available to common stockholders was $79.5 million, or $1.05 per diluted common share, for 2006 as compared to $142.9 million, or $1.87 for 2005 and $202.9 million, or $2.97 for 2004. To maintain our REIT status, we are required to distribute a minimum of 90 percent of our annual taxable income to our stockholders. Because we pay dividends based on taxable income, dividends may be more or less than net earnings (loss). As such, we believe that the disclosure of estimated taxable income available to common stockholders, which is a non generally accepted accounting principle, or "GAAP," financial measurement, is useful information for our investors. We paid total cash dividends of $0.95 per common share during 2006, $1.95 during 2005 and $2.90 during 2004, which, when combined with available tax loss carry forwards met taxable income distribution requirements for each year. Distributions to stockholders will generally be taxable as ordinary or qualified dividends, although such distributions may be designated as capital gains or a tax free return of capital. Under the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Act of 2003, a portion of the total common stock cash dividends paid to our stockholders during 2005 and 2006 were the result of dividends paid from IFC to IMH which will be taxed as qualifying dividends. IMH annually furnishes to each of its stockholders a statement setting forth the tax characteristics of the dividends. The 2006 dividend distribution characteristics are 91.5 percent and 8.5 percent as ordinary income and qualifying dividends, respectively. Upon the filing of our 2005 tax return, the REIT had a federal net operating tax loss carry forward of $8.2 million, which expires in the year 2020 and which may or may not be used to offset taxable income in 2006 or in subsequent years. We expect to file our 2006 federal and state tax returns in September 2007 at which time changes to federal net operating loss carry forwards, if any, will be determined. 50 Year ended 2006 vs. Year ended 2005 Estimated Taxable Income available to IMH Common Stockholders Estimated taxable income available to IMH common stockholders excludes net earnings from IFC and its subsidiaries and the elimination of intercompany loan sale transactions. The following schedule reconciles net earnings to estimated taxable income available to common stockholders of the REIT. For the year ended December 31, 2006 (1) 2005 2004 Net (loss) earnings $ (75,273 ) $ 270,258 $ 257,637 Adjustments to net (loss) earnings: (2) Loan loss provision (3) 43,054 30,563 30,927 Tax deduction for actual loan losses (3) (27,157 ) (16,004 ) (16,252 ) GAAP earnings on REMICs (4) (16,822 ) Taxable income on REMICs (4) 34,297 Change in fair value of derivatives (5) 114,490 (155,695 ) (103,724 ) Dividends on preferred stock (14,698 ) (14,530 ) (3,750 ) Net loss (earnings) of taxable REIT subsidiaries (6) 25,994 (14,968 ) (42,944 ) Dividend from taxable REIT subsidiaries (7) 7,400 32,850 37,000 Elimination of inter company loan sales transactions (8) (11,913 ) 10,429 44,048 Net miscellaneous adjustments 166 Estimated taxable income available to common stockholders (9) $ 79,538 $ 142,903 $ 202,942 Estimated taxable income per diluted common share (9) $ 1.05 $ 1.87 $ 2.97 Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 76,110 76,277 68,244 (1)Estimated taxable income includes estimates of book to tax adjustments which can differ from actual taxable income as calculated when we file our annual corporate tax return. Since estimated taxable income is a non GAAP financial measurement, the reconciliation of estimated taxable income available to common stockholders to net (loss) earnings is intended to meet the requirements of Regulation G as promulgated by the SEC for the presentation of non GAAP financial measurements. To maintain our REIT status, we are required to distribute a minimum of 90 percent of our annual taxable income to our stockholders. (2)Certain adjustments are made to net (loss) earnings in order to calculate taxable income due to differences in the way revenues and expenses are recognized under the two methods. (3)To calculate estimated taxable income, actual loan losses are deducted. For the calculation of net earnings, GAAP requires a deduction for estimated losses inherent in our mortgage portfolios in the form of a provision for loan losses, which are not deductible for tax purposes. Therefore, as the estimated losses provided for under GAAP are actually realized, the losses will negatively and may materially effect future taxable income. (4)Includes GAAP to tax differences related to the ISAC REMIC 2005 2, ISAC REMIC 2006 1, ISAC REMIC 2006 3, ISAC REMIC 2006 4, and ISAC REMIC 2006 5 securitizations, which were treated as secured borrowings for GAAP purposes and sales for tax purposes. The REMIC GAAP income excludes the provision for loan losses recorded that may relate to the REMIC collateral included in securitized mortgage collateral. The Company does not have any specific valuation allowances recorded as an offset to the REMIC collateral. (5)The mark to market change for the valuation of derivatives at IMH is income or expense for GAAP financial reporting purposes but is not included as an addition or deduction for taxable income calculations until realized. (6)Represents net (loss) earnings of IFC and ICCC, our taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRS), which may not necessarily equal taxable income. Starting January 1, 2006, the Company elected to convert ICCC from a qualified REIT subsidiary to a TRS. (7)Any dividends paid to IMH by the TRS in excess of their cumulative undistributed earnings and profits taxable income minus taxes paid would be recognized as a return of capital by IMH to the extent of IMHs capital investment in the TRS. Distributions from the TRS to IMH may not equal the TRS net earnings, however, IMH can only recognize dividend distributions received from the TRS as taxable income to the extent that the TRS 51 distributions are from current or prior period undistributed earnings and profits taxable income minus taxes paid. Any distributions by the TRS in excess of IMHs capital investment in the TRS would be taxed as capital gains. (8)Includes the effects to taxable income associated with the elimination of gains from inter company loan sales and other inter company transactions between IFC, ICCC, and IMH, net of tax and the related amortization of the deferred charge. (9)Excludes the deduction for common stock cash dividends paid and the availability of a deduction attributable to net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has estimated federal net operating loss carry forwards of $8.2 million that are expected to be utilized prior to their expiration in the year 2020. Estimated taxable income available to common shareholders decreased $63.4 million for the year ended 2006 as compared to decreases of $60.0 million for 2005. The decline in estimated taxable income was mainly attributable to: a decline of $47.7 million in adjusted net interest income at IMH, which includes the realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments and excludes amortization of intercompany loan discounts; a decrease in the dividend from the taxable REIT subsidiaries of $25.5 million, as a result of a decrease in the gains from loan sales; an increase in loan losses of $11.2 million, as a result of an increase in delinquencies; a decrease in fees and other income generated from the warehouse operations of $4.2 million, partially offset by; a $15.9 million of taxable income generated from the investment in our REMIC securitizations in excess of GAAP earnings on the REMICs. The decline in adjusted net interest income at IMH of $47.7 million was primarily the result of a decline in the interest spread on securitized mortgage collateral which resulted from interest rates rising on the borrowings at a faster rate than the adjustable rate mortgages could increase, coupled with a hedge ratio that was less than 100% of the mortgage portfolio. 52  Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition As of December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 As of December 31, Increase (Decrease) % Change 2006 2005 Securitized mortgage collateral $ 21,050,829 $ 24,494,290 $ (3,443,461 ) (14 )% Mortgages held for investment 1,880 160,070 (158,190 ) (99 ) Finance receivables 306,294 350,217 (43,923 ) (13 ) Allowance for loan losses (91,775 ) (78,514 ) (13,261 ) (17 ) Mortgages held for sale 1,561,919 2,052,694 (490,775 ) (24 ) Derivatives 147,291 250,368 (103,077 ) (41 ) Real Estate Owned 161,538 46,351 115,187 249 Other assets 460,979 444,903 16,076 4 Total assets $ 23,598,955 $ 27,720,379 $ (4,121,424 ) (15 )% Securitized mortgage borrowings $ 20,526,369 $ 23,990,430 $ (3,464,061 ) (14 )% Reverse repurchase agreements 1,880,395 2,430,075 (549,680 ) (23 ) Other liabilities 182,661 132,927 49,734 37 Total liabilities 22,589,425 26,553,432 (3,964,007 ) (15 ) Total stockholders equity 1,009,530 1,166,947 (157,417 ) (13 ) Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 23,598,955 $ 27,720,379 $ (4,121,424 ) (15 )% Total assets were $23.6 billion as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $27.7 billion as of prior year end, as the long term investment operations retained $5.3 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and $526.6 million of commercial mortgages, substantially offset by approximately $9.1 billion in prepayments. The prepayments, offset by retentions, decreased the long term mortgage portfolio to $21.1 billion as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $24.7 billion as of prior year end. The acquisition and origination of mortgages were primarily financed through the issuance of $5.9 billion of securitized mortgage borrowings. As of December 31, Increase (Decrease) % Change 2005 2004 Securitized mortgage collateral $ 24,494,290 $ 21,308,906 $ 3,185,384 15 % Mortgages held for investment 160,070 586,686 (426,616 ) (73 ) Finance receivables 350,217 471,820 (121,603 ) (26 ) Allowance for loan losses (78,514 ) (63,955 ) (14,559 ) (23 ) Mortgages held for sale 2,052,694 587,745 1,464,949 249 Derivatives 250,368 95,388 154,980 100 Real Estate Owned 46,351 18,277 28,074 100 Other assets 444,903 810,900 (365,997 ) (45 ) Total assets $ 27,720,379 $ 23,815,767 $ 3,904,612 16 % Securitized mortgage borrowings $ 23,990,430 $ 21,206,373 $ 2,784,057 13 % Reverse repurchase agreements 2,430,075 1,527,558 902,517 59 Other liabilities 132,927 37,761 95,166 252 Total liabilities 26,553,432 22,771,692 3,781,740 17 Total stockholders equity 1,166,947 1,044,075 122,872 12 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 27,720,379 $ 23,815,767 $ 3,904,612 16 % Total assets grew 16 percent to $27.7 billion as of December 31, 2005 as compared to $23.8 billion as of prior year end, as the long term investment operations retained $12.2 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and originated 53 $798.5 million of commercial mortgages, substantially offset by approximately $10.3 billion in prepayments. The retention of Alt A and commercial mortgages increased the long term mortgage portfolio to $24.7 billion as of December 31, 2005 as compared to $21.9 billion as of prior year end. The acquisition and origination of mortgages were primarily financed through the issuance of $14.0 billion of securitized mortgage transactions and net proceeds of $4.2 million in new common equity and net proceeds of $1.7 million in new preferred equity. The following table presents selected financial data for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except per share data): As of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Book value per share $ 11.15 $ 13.24 $ 11.80 Return on average assets ( 0.31% ) 1.01% 1.51% Return on average equity ( 6.38% ) 24.13% 35.62% Assets to equity ratio 23.38:1 23.75:1 22.81:1 Debt to equity ratio 22.29:1 22.72:1 21.77:1 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans provided for 0.43% 0.31% 0.29% Prior 12 month (CPR) Residential 0.38% 0.37% 0.30% Prior 12 month (CPR) Commercial 0.08% 0.09% 0.04% Total non performing assets $ 1,130,942 $ 479,660 $ 259,695 Total non performing assets to total assets 4.79% 1.73% 1.09% Mortgages owned 60+ days delinquent $ 1,360,318 $ 733,348 $ 381,290 60+ day delinquency of mortgages owned 6.24% 3.12% 1.74% We believe that in order for us to generate positive cash flows and net earnings from our long term mortgage portfolio, we must successfully manage the following primary operational and market risks: credit risk; prepayment risk; liquidity risk; and interest rate risk. Credit Risk. We manage credit risk by retaining high credit quality Alt A mortgages and commercial mortgages from our customers, adequately providing for loan losses and actively managing delinquencies and defaults. We believe that by improving the overall credit quality of our long term mortgage portfolio we can consistently generate stable future cash flow and net earnings. During 2006 we retained primarily Alt A mortgages with an original weighted average credit score of 701 and an original weighted average LTV ratio of 72 percent. Alt A mortgages are primarily first lien mortgages made to borrowers whose credit is generally within typical Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guidelines, but that have loan characteristics that make them non conforming under those guidelines. We primarily acquire non conforming "A" or "A " credit quality mortgages, collectively, Alt A mortgages. As of December 31, 2006, the original weighted average credit score of mortgages held as residential and commercial securitized mortgage collateral was 697 and 730 and original weighted average LTV ratio of 74 and 66 percent, respectively. For additional information regarding the long term mortgage portfolio refer to Item 8. "Long Term Mortgage Portfolio," "Note C Securitized Mortgage Collateral" and "Note D Mortgages Held for Investment" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have adequately provided for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses increased to $91.8 million as of December 31, 2006 as compared to $78.5 million as of prior year end. Actual loan charge offs net of recoveries on mortgages in the mortgage portfolio and finance receivables increased to $34.1 million for 2006 as compared to $16.0 million for 2005. Included in the allowance at December 31, 2006 was a specific reserve of 54 $5.7 million for expected losses from hurricane affected areas. Additionally, the Company maintains a specific reserve of $10.6 million for specific warehouse lines that we deem impaired. Also included in the allowance is a $3.5 million specific reserve for loans that were repurchased during 2006 that were held as securitized mortgage collateral in the mortgage operations. We monitor our subservicers to make sure that they perform loss mitigation, foreclosure and collection functions according to our servicing guide. This includes an effective and aggressive collection effort in order to minimize the number of mortgages which become seriously delinquent. When resolving delinquent mortgages, sub servicers are required to take timely and aggressive action. The sub servicer is required to determine payment collection under various circumstances, which will result in maximum financial benefit. We accomplish this by either working with the borrower to bring the mortgage current or by foreclosing and liquidating the property. We perform ongoing review of mortgages that display weaknesses and believe that we maintain an adequate loss allowance on our mortgages. When a borrower fails to make required payments on a mortgage and does not cure the delinquency within 60 days, we generally record a notice of default and commence foreclosure proceedings. If the mortgage is not reinstated within the time permitted by law for reinstatement, the property may then be sold at a foreclosure sale. At foreclosure sales, we generally acquire title to the property. As of December 31, 2006, our long term mortgage portfolio included 6.24 percent of mortgages that were 60 days or more delinquent as compared to 3.12 percent as of year end 2005 and 1.74 percent as of December 31, 2004. The following table summarizes mortgages that we own, including securitized mortgage collateral, mortgages held for investment and mortgages held for sale, that were 60 or more days delinquent for the periods indicated (in thousands): As of December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Loans held for sale 60 89 days delinquent $ 11,838 $ 9,985 $ 4,108 90 or more days delinquent 22,760 11,746 12,049 Foreclosures 13,267 2,573 4,208 Delinquent bankruptcies 1,140 586 Total 60+ days delinquent loans held for sale 47,865 25,444 20,951 Long term mortgage portfolio 60 89 days delinquent $ 379,076 $ 290,054 $ 135,764 90 or more days delinquent 460,161 209,835 56,828 Foreclosures 393,033 158,841 153,659 Delinquent bankruptcies 80,183 49,174 14,088 Total 60+ days delinquent long term mortgage portfolio 1,312,453 707,904 360,339 Total 60 or more days delinquent $ 1,360,318 $ 733,348 $ 381,290 Non performing assets consist of mortgages that are 90 days or more delinquent, including loans in foreclosure and delinquent bankruptcies. It is our policy to place a mortgage on non accrual status when it becomes 90 days delinquent and to reverse from revenue any accrued interest. When real estate is acquired in settlement of loans, or other real estate owned, the mortgage is written down to a percentage of the propertys appraised value or brokers price opinion less anticipated selling costs and including mortgage insurance expected to be received. As of December 31, 2006, non performing assets as a percentage of total assets was 4.50 percent compared to 1.73 percent as of year end 2005 and 1.09 percent as of year end 2004. 55 The following table summarizes mortgages that we own, including securitized mortgage collateral, mortgages held for investment and mortgages held for sale, that were non performing for the periods indicated (in thousands): As of December 31, 2006 2005 2004 90 or more days delinquent, foreclosures and delinquent bankruptcies $ 969,404 $ 433,309 $ 241,418 Other real estate owned 161,538 46,351 18,277 Total non performing assets $ 1,130,942 $ 479,660 $ 259,695 A percentage of real estate owned, which consists of residential real estate acquired in satisfaction of loans, is carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less estimated selling and holding costs. Adjustments to the loan carrying value required at the time of foreclosure are charged against the allowance for loan losses. Losses or gains from the ultimate disposition of real estate owned are recorded as (gain) loss on sale of other real estate owned in the consolidated statement of operations. Real estate owned at December 31, 2006 was $161.5 million (249 percent) higher than 2005, as a result of a seasoning portfolio, slowing prepayments and an increase in non performing loans. We have realized a loss on disposition of real estate owned in the amount of $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to a realized gain on disposition of real estate owned in the amount of $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2006 2005 Beginning balance $ 46,351 $ 18,277 Foreclosures 215,930 78,553 Liquidations (100,743 ) (50,479 ) Ending balance $ 161,538 $ 46,351 In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, a detailed analysis of historical loan performance data is accumulated and reviewed, including the delinquency rates. This data is analyzed for loss performance and prepayment performance by product type, and vintage. The results of that analysis are then applied to the current mortgage portfolio and an estimate is calculated. We believe that pooling of mortgages with similar characteristics is an appropriate methodology in which to evaluate the allowance for loan losses. Management also recognizes that there are qualitative factors that must be taken into consideration when evaluating and measuring inherent loss in our loan portfolios. These items include, but are not limited to, economic indicators that may affect the borrowers ability to pay, changes in value of collateral, political factors and industry statistics. While our delinquency rates have increased they have not increased at a rate in excess of our expectations. We believe our total allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses inherent in our mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2006. Prepayment Risk. The Company uses prepayment penalties as a method of partially mitigating prepayment risk. Mortgage industry evidence suggests that the increase in home appreciation rates and lower payment option mortgage products over the last three years has been a significant factor affecting borrowers refinancing decisions. As rates increase, borrowers will find it more difficult to refinance to a lower rate at the reset dates. If borrowers are unable to pay their mortgage payments at the adjusted rate, delinquencies may increase. The three month constant prepayment rate (CPR) decreased to 36 percent at December 31, 2006 from 38 percent as of December 31, 2005, which is primarily related to interest rates rising faster on fixed rate mortgage loans quicker than our ARMs adjusted upward. 56  During 2006, 56 percent of Alt A mortgages retained by the long term investment operations from the mortgage operations had prepayment penalty features ranging from six months to five years, and as of December 31, 2006, 68 percent of residential securitized mortgages retained had prepayment penalties. As of December 31, 2006, the twelve month CPR of mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral for residential and commercial loans was 38 and 8 percent as compared to 37 and 9 percent as of December 31, 2005 and 30 and 4 percent twelve month CPR as of December 31, 2004. Prepayment penalties are charged to borrowers for mortgages that are repaid early and recorded as interest income on our consolidated financial statements. Interest income from prepayment penalties helps offset additional amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs. During 2006, prepayment penalties received from borrowers were recorded as interest income and increased the yield on average mortgage assets by 19 basis points as compared to 16 basis points for 2005. Liquidity Risk. We employ a leverage strategy to increase assets by financing our long term mortgage portfolio primarily with securitized mortgage borrowings, reverse repurchase agreements and capital, then using cash proceeds to acquire additional mortgage assets. We retain ARMs and FRMs that are acquired and originated from the mortgage and commercial operations and finance the acquisition of those mortgages, during this accumulation period, with reverse repurchase agreements. After accumulating a pool of mortgages, generally between $200 million and $2.5 billion, we sell the mortgages in the form of collateralized mortgage obligations, whole loan sales or REMICs. REMICs may be on balance sheet or off balance sheet. Under either accounting methods, our cash invested on the date of securitization is generally between 3 percent and 5 percent of the borrowings. Our strategy is to sell or securitize our mortgages within 90 days in order to reduce the accumulation period that mortgages are outstanding on short term reverse repurchase facilities, which reduces our exposure to margin calls and reduces spread risk on these facilities. Securitized mortgage borrowings are classes of bonds that are sold to investors of mortgage backed securities and as such are not subject to margin calls. In addition, the securitized mortgage borrowings generally require a smaller initial cash investment as a percentage of mortgages financed than does interim reverse repurchase financing. Additionally, as interest rates decline our requirement to maintain certain cash collateral balances increases, which reduces our cash and cash equivalents available for use in operations. As of December 31, 2006 our cash collateral balance totaled $19.1 million, as compared to $16.6 million as of December 31, 2005. Because of the historically favorable loss rates of our Alt A mortgages, we have received favorable credit ratings on our securitized mortgage borrowings from credit rating agencies, which has increased the percentage of bonds issued and reduced our required initial capital investment. The ratio of total assets to total equity, or "leverage ratio," was 23.38 to 1 as of December 31, 2006 as compared to 23.75 to 1 as of December 31. 2005. This use of leverage at these historical levels allows us to grow our balance sheet by efficiently using available capital. We continually monitor our leverage ratio and liquidity levels to insure that we are adequately protected against adverse changes in market conditions. For additional information regarding liquidity refer to " Liquidity and Capital Resources." Interest Rate Risk. Refer to Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 57 Results of Operations Condensed Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated Interest income $ 1,276,713 $ 1,251,960 $ 24,753 2 % Interest expense 1,311,405 1,047,209 264,196 25 Net interest income (expense) (34,692 ) 204,751 (239,443 ) (117 ) Provision for loan losses 47,326 30,563 16,763 55 Net interest income (expense) after provision for loan losses (82,018 ) 174,188 (256,206 ) (147 ) Total non interest income 120,226 220,806 (100,580 ) (46 ) Total non interest expense 115,338 127,213 (11,875 ) (9 ) Income tax benefit (1,857 ) (2,477 ) 620 25 Net (loss) earnings $ (75,273 ) $ 270,258 $ (345,531 ) (128 )% Net (loss) earnings per share diluted $ (1.18 ) $ 3.35 $ (4.53 ) (135 )% Dividends declared per common share $ 0.95 $ 1.95 $ (1.00 ) (51 )% Condensed Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated restated Interest income $ 1,251,960 $ 755,616 $ 496,344 66 % Interest expense 1,047,209 412,533 634,676 154 Net interest income 204,751 343,083 (138,332 ) (40 ) Provision for loan losses 30,563 30,927 (364 ) (1 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 174,188 312,156 (137,968 ) (44 ) Total non interest income 220,806 41,089 179,717 437 Total non interest expense 127,213 92,846 34,367 37 Income tax (benefit) expense (2,477 ) 2,762 (5,239 ) (190 ) Net earnings $ 270,258 $ 257,637 $ 12,621 5 % Net earnings per share diluted $ 3.35 $ 3.72 $ (0.37 ) (10 )% Dividends declared per common share $ 1.95 $ 2.90 $ (0.95 ) (33 )% Net Interest Income (expense) We earn net interest income primarily from mortgage assets which include securitized mortgage collateral, mortgages held for investment, mortgages held for sale, finance receivables and investment securities available for sale, or collectively, "mortgage assets," and, to a lesser extent, interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense is primarily interest paid on borrowings on mortgage assets, which include securitized mortgage borrowings, reverse repurchase agreements and borrowings secured by investment securities available for sale. Net interest income also includes (1) amortization of acquisition costs on mortgages acquired from the mortgage operations, (2) accretion of loan discounts, which primarily represents the amount allocated to mortgage servicing rights when they are sold to third parties and mortgages are transferred to the 58 long term investment operations from the mortgage operations and retained for long term investment, (3) amortization of securitized mortgage securitization expenses and, to a lesser extent, (4) amortization of securitized mortgage bond discounts. The following table summarizes average balance, interest and weighted average yield on mortgage assets and borrowings on mortgage assets for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Average Balance Interest Yield Average Balance Interest Yield Average Balance Interest Yield MORTGAGE ASSETS Subordinated securities collateralized by mortgages $ 29,918 $ 4,263 14.25% $ 39,054 $ 1,656 4.24% $ 27,937 $ 3,764 13.47% Securitized mortgage collateral (1) 21,311,592 1,121,481 5.27% 23,132,083 1,061,712 4.59% 14,283,347 618,771 4.33% Mortgages held for investment and held for sale 1,878,675 121,266 6.45% 2,587,614 163,087 6.30% 1,837,347 105,742 5.76% Finance receivables 275,571 20,960 7.61% 352,833 20,332 5.76% 510,899 25,018 4.90% Total mortgage assets\ interest income $ 23,495,756 $ 1,267,970 5.40% $ 26,111,584 $ 1,246,787 4.77% $ 16,659,530 $ 753,295 4.52% BORROWINGS Securitized mortgage borrowings $ 20,848,143 $ 1,183,150 5.68% $ 22,721,309 $ 919,732 4.05% $ 14,072,852 $ 354,547 2.52% Reverse repurchase agreements 2,010,931 118,958 5.92% 2,730,805 121,755 4.46% 2,175,728 57,837 2.66% Total borrowings on mortgage assets\ interest expense $ 22,859,074 $ 1,302,108 5.70% $ 25,452,114 $ 1,041,487 4.09% $ 16,248,580 $ 412,384 2.54% Net Interest Spread (2) ( 0.30 )% 0.68% 1.98% Net Interest Margin (3) ( 0.15 )% 0.79% 2.05% Net interest (expense) income on mortgage assets $ (34,138 ) ( 0.15 )% $ 205,300 0.79% $ 340,911 2.05% Less: accretion of loan discounts (4) (64,414 ) ( 0.27 )% (77,051 ) ( 0.30 )% (54,867 ) ( 0.33 )% Adjusted by net cash receipts (payments) on derivatives (5) 204,435 0.87% 22,595 0.09% (91,882 ) ( 0.55 )% Adjusted Net Interest Margin (6) $ 105,883 0.45% $ 150,844 0.58% $ 194,162 1.17% Effect of amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs (7) $ 232,045 ( 0.99 )% $ 295,476 ( 1.13 )% $ 166,649 ( 1.00 )% (1)Interest on securitized mortgage collateral includes amortization of acquisition cost on mortgages acquired from the mortgage operations and accretion of loan discounts. (2)Net interest spread on mortgage assets is calculated by subtracting the weighted average yield on total borrowings on mortgage assets from the weighted average yield on total mortgage assets. (3)Net interest margin on mortgage assets is calculated by subtracting interest expense on total borrowings on mortgage assets from interest income on total mortgage assets and then dividing by total average mortgage assets and annualized for the quarter margin. (4)Yield represents income from the accretion of loan discounts, included in (1) above, divided by total average mortgage assets. (5)Yield represents net cash (payments) receipts on derivatives divided by total average mortgage assets. (6)Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets is calculated by subtracting interest expense on total borrowings on mortgage assets, accretion of loan discounts and net cash receipts on derivatives from interest income on total mortgage assets divided by total average mortgage assets. Net cash receipts on derivatives are a component of realized gain on derivative instruments on the consolidated statements of operations. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets is a non GAAP financial measurement, however, the reconciliation provided in this table is intended to meet the requirements of Regulation G as promulgated by the SEC for the presentation of non GAAP financial measurements. We believe that the presentation of adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets is a useful 59 operating performance measure for our investors as it more closely reflects the economics of net interest margins on mortgage assets by providing information to evaluate net interest income attributable to net investments. (7)The amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs are components of interest income and interest expense, respectively. Yield represents the cost of amortization of net loan premiums and securitization costs divided by total average mortgage assets. For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Decreases in net interest income were primarily due to a decline in net interest margins on mortgage assets primarily caused by the following: increase in one month LIBOR rate underlying borrowings only partially offset by realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments; differences in interest rate adjustment periods, mortgage loans and mortgage borrowings; prepayments of higher yielding mortgages; and, a more challenging competitive environment. Net interest income for 2006 was $239.4 million (117 percent) lower than 2005. The year over year decrease in net interest income was primarily due to the change in the one month LIBOR, which is the interest rate index used to price borrowing costs on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings, which rose approximately 94 basis points since 2005 while mortgage assets over the same period did not re price upward as quickly. This resulted in interest expense increasing by $264.2 million (25 percent) in 2006 as compared to 2005. Additionally total average mortgage assets declined by $2.6 billion (10 percent) for 2006 as compared to 2005. Adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, as defined in the yield table above, declined by 13 basis points (22 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets was primarily due to a negative variance of 161 basis points in borrowing costs partially offset by a favorable variance of 78 basis points on realized gains from derivative assets and a favorable variance of 63 basis points on mortgage assets as coupons have adjusted. During 2006, the Federal Reserve raised short term interest rates 100 basis points, which effected movements in one month LIBOR, a total of 94 basis points. This caused borrowing costs on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings, which are tied to one month LIBOR and re price monthly without limitation, to increase at a faster pace than coupons on LIBOR ARMs securing securitized mortgage borrowings, which generally re price every six months with limitation. LIBOR ARMs held in our long term investment portfolio are subject to the following interest rate risks: interest rate adjustment limitations on mortgages held for investment due to periodic and lifetime interest rate cap features as compared to borrowings which are not subject to adjustment limitations; mismatched interest rate re pricing periods between mortgages held for investment, which generally re price every six months, and borrowings, which re price every month in regards to securitized mortgage borrowings and daily in regards to reverse repurchase agreements; and uneven and unequal movements in the interest rate indices used to re price mortgages held for investment, which are generally indexed to one , three and six month LIBOR and one year LIBOR, and borrowings, which are generally indexed to one month LIBOR. Mortgage prepayment speeds mitigated during 2006. The three month constant prepayment rate (CPR) decreased to 36 percent at December 31, 2006 from 38 percent as of December 31, 2005, which is related to rates rising in the marketplace at a faster rate than the rates on our adjustable mortgage loans. Amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs decreased by 14 basis points (12 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease was a result of a lower prepayment rate than in the prior year. A substantial portion of our long term mortgage investment portfolio consists of mortgages with prepayment penalty features that are primarily designed to help minimize the rate of early mortgage prepayments. However, if borrowers do prepay on mortgages, a prepayment penalty is charged which helps partially offset additional amortization of 60 loan premiums and securitization costs related to the prepaid mortgages. During 2006, prepayment penalties received from borrowers was recorded as interest income and increased adjusted net interest margin by 3 basis points (19 percent) of mortgage assets as compared to 2005. Additionally, the net interest margin continues to be affected by the difficult competitive environment facing mortgage portfolio lenders. As a result, net interest margins continue to tighten on newly originated loans. Furthermore, a rise in short term rates and a decline in long term rates have resulted in a partial inversion of the yield curve, adding pressure to mortgage lending profitability. During 2006, adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, which is a non GAAP financial measurement as indicated in the yield table above, declined by 13 basis points (22 percent) as compared to 2005. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets did not decline as much as net interest margin on mortgage assets primarily due to a 78 basis point increase in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments relative to total average mortgage assets. Benefits received from derivatives relative to total average mortgage assets partially offset the decline in the net interest margin on mortgage assets which was caused by the factors described above. Our interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset the potential adverse effects of changing interest rates primarily associated with cash flows on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. However, as a result of the combination of the factors listed above, the interest rate spread differential between ARMs and adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings compressed, which decreased net interest margins on mortgage assets. By design, our current interest rate risk management program provides 20 percent to 25 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of our six month LIBOR ARMs and 85 percent to 98 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of intermediate, or hybrid, ARMs at the point in time that we securitize the mortgages. Income Taxes. Income tax benefit decreased to $1.9 million during 2006 as compared to $2.5 million during 2005 primarily due to an increase in operating losses at IFC and ICCC. IFC and ICCC are taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRS) and are therefore subject to corporate income taxes. For GAAP purposes, the Company records a deferred charge to eliminate the expense recognition of income taxes paid on inter company profits that result from the sale of mortgages from IFC and ICCC to the long term investment operations. Included in the income tax expense is the amortization of the deferred charge. A deferred charge was recorded to eliminate the income tax effect resulting from gains on inter company mortgage sales from the mortgage and commercial operations (taxable REIT subsidiaries) to the REIT. The deferred charge is amortized to expense over the expected life of the mortgages. Amortization of deferred charge was $20.6 million during 2006 as compared to $27.2 million during 2005. The year over year decrease in the amortization of the deferred charge was the result of a lower average balance of deferred charge in 2006 as compared 2005 as a result of $7.2 billion (55 percent) decrease in retention of mortgages by the long term investment operations from the mortgage and commercial operations in 2006. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Decreases in net interest income were primarily due to a decline in net interest margins on mortgage assets primarily caused by the following: increase in one month LIBOR rate underlying borrowings only partially offset by realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments; differences in interest rate adjustment periods; faster amortization of mortgage premium and securitized mortgage securitization cost; use of higher leverage lower net interest margin securitized mortgages completed during since the second half of 2004; and an increasingly challenging competitive environment. Net interest income for 2005 decreased 40 percent to $204.7 million as compared to $343.1 million for 2004. The year over year decrease in net interest income of $138.3 million was primarily due to net interest margins on mortgage assets declining by 126 basis points to 0.79 percent for 2005 as compared to 2.05 percent for 2004. Net 61 interest margin on mortgage assets declined as one month LIBOR, which is the interest rate index used to price borrowing costs on securitized mortgage and reverse repurchase borrowings, rose approximately 200 basis points since 2004 while mortgage assets over the same period did not re price upward as quickly. This resulted in an increase in interest expense of 154 percent to $1.0 billion in 2005 compared to $412.5 million in 2004. Adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, as defined in the yield table above, declined by 59 basis points to 0.58 percent during 2005 as compared to 1.17 percent during 2004. The decrease in adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets was primarily due to (1) an increase in short term interest rates, (2) an increase in the amortization of loan premiums, securitization costs and bond discounts as a result of higher than expected mortgage prepayments and, to a lesser extent, (3) higher leverage and lower net interest margins on certain securitized mortgages completed during the second half of 2004. During 2005, the Federal Reserve raised short term interest rates, which effected movements in one month LIBOR, a total of 200 basis points. This caused borrowing costs on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings, which are tied to one month LIBOR and re price monthly without limitation, to rise at a faster pace than coupons on LIBOR ARMs securing securitized mortgage borrowings, which generally re price every six months with limitation. LIBOR ARMs held in our long term investment portfolio are subject to the following interest rate risks: interest rate adjustment limitations on mortgages held for investment due to periodic and lifetime interest rate cap features as compared to borrowings which are not subject to adjustment limitations; mismatched interest rate re pricing periods between mortgages held for investment, which generally re price every six months, and borrowings, which re price every month in regards to securitized mortgage borrowings and daily in regards to reverse repurchase agreements; and uneven and unequal movements in the interest rate indices used to re price mortgages held for investment, which are generally indexed to one , three and six month LIBOR and one year LIBOR, and borrowings, which are generally indexed to one month LIBOR. Along with an increase in short term interest rates, our expectation, based on past experience, was that we would see a corresponding decline in mortgage prepayment speeds. However, mortgage prepayment speeds continued at heightened levels during 2005. There is recent mortgage industry evidence that documents a substantial increase in home appreciation rates over the last three years which has been a significant factor affecting prepayment patterns of Alt A borrowers. Borrowers appear more willing to use home equity to pay loan prepayment penalties in order to obtain lower monthly payments by refinancing into other mortgage products, such as interest only and high loan to value mortgage products. Actual prepayment speeds in excess of projected future prepayment rates resulted in a cumulative upward adjustment in both the amortization rate and amortization amount of loan premiums, securitization costs and bond discounts during 2005. As such, amortization of loan premiums and securitization expenses increased by 13 basis points to 1.13 percent of average mortgage assets during 2005 as compared to 1.00 percent of average mortgage assets during 2004. A substantial portion of our long term mortgage investment portfolio consists of mortgages with prepayment penalty features that are primarily designed to help minimize the rate of early mortgage prepayments. However, if mortgages do prepay, a prepayment penalty is charged which helps offset additional amortization of loan premiums and securitization costs. During 2005, prepayment penalties received from borrowers was recorded as interest income and increased 10 basis points to 16 basis points of mortgage assets as compared to 6 basis points of mortgage assets in 2004. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our ability to raise capital in 2004 during the process of restating our consolidated financial statements, we utilized securitized mortgage structures during the second half of 2004 which allowed us to preserve existing capital through the use of higher leverage and lower net interest margins. Higher leverage securitized mortgages were structured to require a lower level of initial capital investment than for securitized mortgages completed prior to July 2004. Capital invested in higher leverage securitized mortgages has been, and will continue to be, deposited into those specific securitized mortgage trusts from monthly excess cash flows on mortgages securing the securitized mortgages until the required level of capital investment is attained. The use of higher leverage securitized mortgages contributed to compressed net interest margins on total mortgage assets. 62  Additionally, the net interest margin continues to be impacted by the difficult competitive environment facing mortgage portfolio lenders. As a result, net interest margins continue to tighten on newly originated loans. Furthermore, a rise in short term rates and decline in long term rates has resulted in a flattening of the yield curve, adding pressure to mortgage lending profitability. During 2005, adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets, which is a non GAAP financial measurement as indicated in the yield table above, decreased by 59 basis points as compared to a decline of 126 basis points on net interest margin on mortgage assets. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgage assets did not decline as much as net interest margin on mortgage assets primarily due to a 64 basis point increase in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments relative to total average mortgage assets. Lower derivative costs relative to total average mortgage assets partially offset the decline in adjusted net interest margins on mortgage assets which was caused by the factors described above. Adjusted net interest margins were also affected by the following during 2005: our interest rate risk management policies do not allow 100 percent coverage of the principal amount outstanding on securitized mortgage borrowings at any given time; and actual mortgage prepayments and the corresponding repayment of securitized mortgage borrowings exceeded the pre determined amortization schedule of the notional amount of derivative instruments. Our interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset the potential adverse effects of changing interest rates primarily associated with cash flows on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. However, as a result of the combination of the factors listed above, the interest rate spread differential between ARMs and adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings compressed, which compressed net interest margins on mortgage assets. By design, our current interest rate risk management program provides 20 percent to 25 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of our six month LIBOR ARMs and 85 percent to 98 percent coverage of the outstanding principal balance of intermediate, or hybrid, ARMs at the point in time that we securitize the mortgages. Income Taxes. Income taxes decreased to a benefit $2.5 million during 2005 as compared to an expense of $2.8 million during 2004 primarily due to an increase in operating losses at IFC when profits on inter Company loan sales are eliminated from IFCs net earnings. IFC is a taxable REIT subsidiary (TRS) and is therefore subject to corporate income taxes. For GAAP purposes, the Company records a deferred charge to eliminate the expense recognition of income taxes paid on inter Company profits that result from the sale of mortgages from IFC to the long term operations. The amortization of the deferred charge is recorded in other expense rather than income tax expense. A deferred charge was recorded to eliminate the income tax effect resulting from gains on inter company mortgage sales, which primarily represent the amount allocated to MSRs when they are sold to third parties. The deferred charge is amortized to expense over the expected life of the mortgages. Amortization of deferred charge was $27.2 million during 2005 as compared to $16.2 million during 2004. The year over year increase in the amortization of the deferred charge was the result of a higher average balance of deferred charge in 2005 as compared 2004 as a result of $16.9 billion in retentions of mortgages by the long term investment operations from the mortgage operations in 2004. Also, the increase in amortization was associated with the higher loan prepayments in 2005 as compared to 2004. 63 Non Interest Income For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Changes in Non Interest Income (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Realized gain from derivative instruments $ 204,435 $ 22,595 $ 181,840 805 % Change in fair value of derivative instruments (113,017 ) 144,932 (257,949 ) (178 ) Gain on sale of loans 43,173 49,770 (6,597 ) (13 ) Provision for repurchases (7,367 ) (5,796 ) (1,571 ) (27 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (34,001 ) (4,465 ) (29,536 ) (662 ) Amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights (1,428 ) (2,006 ) 578 29 Impairment on investment securities available for sale (925 ) (925 ) (100 ) (Gain) loss on sale of other real estate owned (5,058 ) 1,888 (6,946 ) (368 ) Other income 34,414 13,888 20,526 148 Total non interest income $ 120,226 $ 220,806 $ (100,580 ) (46 )% Realized Gain from Derivative Instruments. Realized gains from derivative instruments increased by $181.8 million (805 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase in realized gains from derivatives is due to the 94 basis point increase in the one month LIBOR from the end of 2005, which has caused the floating rate payments received on swaps to increase above the fixed payments made. Realized gains from derivative instruments are recorded as current period expense or income on our consolidated financial statements and are included in the calculation of taxable income. Realized gains exclude the mark to market gains that are realized for tax purposes at the taxable REIT subsidiaries when the loans held for sale are deposited into the securitization trust, and the related derivatives are deposited into a swap trust. These gains are not realized for GAAP purposes, as the deposit of the derivatives into the swap trust are considered an inter company transfer, as the REIT consolidates the swap trust. For GAAP purpose, these gains and losses are included in change in fair value of derivative instruments. Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instruments. Change in fair value of derivative instruments decreased to a loss of $113.0 million during 2006 as compared to gains of $144.9 million during 2005. The decrease in market valuation was the result of the net cash payments received on the derivatives, which are recorded as realized gains. We primarily enter into derivative contracts to offset changes in cash flows associated with securitized mortgage liabilities. In our consolidated financial statements, we record a market valuation adjustment for these derivatives, as well as other derivatives used by the mortgage and commercial operations to hedge our loan pipeline and mortgage loans held for sale, as current period expense or revenue. Changes in the fair value of derivatives at IMH are not included as an addition or deduction for purposes of calculating estimated taxable income. Gain on Sale of Loans. Gain on sale of loans decreased $6.6 million (13 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease was primarily due to an 18 percent decrease in whole loan sales and un consolidated REMIC securitizations as the mortgage and commercial operations sold $7.1 billion of loans to third party investors including an $834.0 million un consolidated REMIC during 2006 as compared to $8.7 billion and $633.9 million, respectively for 2005. Additionally, we use derivatives to protect the market value of mortgages from the point in time when we establish an interest rate lock commitment on a particular mortgage prior to its close until the eventual sale or securitization. Any changes in interest rates on mortgages that we have committed to acquire at a particular rate until we sell or securitize the mortgage generally results in an increase or decrease in the market value of the related derivative. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded an $8.8 million loss from the settlement of these derivatives as compared to a gain of $25.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. 64 Provision for Repurchases. Provision for repurchases increased $1.6 million (27 percent) during 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase in the provision for repurchases was primarily due to an increase in outstanding loan repurchase requests to $182.0 million at the end of 2006 compared to $59.4 million at December 31, 2005. Loss on Lower of Cost or Market Writedown. The loss on lower of cost or market ("LOCOM") writedown increased $29.5 million (662 percent), primarily due to an $18.8 million writedown on loans held for sale that were repurchased in the second quarter due to higher early payment defaults on whole loan sales. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Changes in Non Interest Income (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments $ 22,595 $ (91,881 ) $ 114,476 125% Change in fair value of derivative instruments 144,932 96,575 48,357 50 Gain on sale of loans 49,770 25,134 24,636 98 Provision for repurchases (5,796 ) (405 ) (5,391 ) (1331 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (4,465 ) 4,465 100 Amortization and impairment of mortgage servicing rights (2,006 ) (2,063 ) 57 3 Impairment on investment securities available for sale (1,120 ) 1,120 100 Gain on sale of other real estate owned 1,888 3,901 (2,013 ) (52 ) Other income 13,888 10,948 2,940 27 Total non interest income $ 220,806 $ 41,089 $ 179,717 437 % Realized Gain (Loss) from Derivative Instruments. Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments increased to $22.6 million during 2005 as compared to $(91.9) million during 2004, or 9 basis points of total average mortgage assets during 2005 as compared to (55) basis points of total average mortgage assets during 2004. The increase in realized gain (loss) from derivatives is due to the 200 basis point increase in one month LIBOR from the end of 2004, which has caused the floating rate payment received on swaps to increase above the fixed payment made. Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments are recorded as current period expense or revenue on our consolidated financial statements and are included in the calculation of taxable income. Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instruments. Change in fair value of derivative instruments increased to $144.9 million during 2005 as compared to $96.6 million during 2004. The increase in market valuation adjustment was the result of an increase in future expectations of short term interest rates which took place during 2005 as a result of stronger than expected employment growth and rising inflationary expectations. We primarily enter into derivative contracts to offset changes in cash flows associated with securitized mortgage liabilities. In our consolidated financial statements, we record a market valuation adjustment for these derivatives, as well as other derivatives used by the mortgage operations to hedge our loan pipeline and mortgage loans held for sale, as current period expense or revenue. Changes in fair value of derivatives at IMH are not included as an addition or deduction for purposes of calculating estimated taxable income. Gain on Sale of Loans. Gain on sale of loans increased to $39.5 million during 2005 as compared to $24.7 million during 2004. The increase of $14.8 million is primarily due to a 64 percent increase in whole loan sales and a REMIC securitization as the mortgage operations sold $8.7 billion of loans to third party investors and a REMIC during 2005 as compared to $5.3 billion for the same period in 2004. Additionally, we use derivatives to protect the market value of mortgages from the point in time when we establish an interest rate lock commitment on a particular mortgage prior to its close until the eventual sale or securitization. Any changes in interest rates on mortgages that we have committed to acquire at a particular rate until we sell or securitize the mortgage generally results in an increase or decrease in the market value of the related derivative. For the year ended December 31, 65 2005, we recorded a $25.6 million gain from the settlement of these derivatives as compared to a loss of $(24.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Provision for Repurchases. Provision for repurchases increased $5.4 million (1331 percent) during 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase in the provision for repurchases was primarily due to an increase in outstanding loan repurchase requests at December 31, 2005. Loss on Lower of Cost or Market Writedown. GAAP requires us to record our loans held for sale at the lower of cost or market (LOCOM) value. Market conditions at the end of 2005, such as widening of credit and bond spreads and an oversupply of mortgage inventory, resulted in the loans decreasing in value below cost are at end of 2005 resulting in us recording a $4.5 million LOCOM adjustment. Non Interest Expense For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Changes in Non Interest Expense (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated Personnel expense $ 65,082 $ 77,508 $ (12,426 ) (16 )% General and administrative and other expense 19,867 25,384 (5,517 ) (22 ) Professional services 8,762 9,496 (734 ) (8 ) Equipment expense 7,791 5,420 2,371 44 Occupancy expense 8,735 5,018 3,717 74 Data processing expense 5,101 4,387 714 16 Total operating expense 115,338 127,213 (11,875 ) (9 ) Total non interest expense $ 115,338 $ 127,213 $ (11,875 ) (9 )% Operating expenses. Operating expenses include personnel expense, general and administrative and other expense, professional services, equipment expense, occupancy expense and data processing expense. Operating expenses decreased by $11.9 million (9 percent), as the Company continued to reduce headcount to offset decreases in loan production. Total acquisitions and originations declined to $12.6 billion for 2006 as compared to $22.3 billion in 2005, we continued to evaluate personnel levels needed to support the current levels of production. In addition, a decrease in staffing caused a decrease of $5.5 million (22 percent), in general and administrative and other expenses. In compliance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 146 "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," $2.3 million of costs relating to the Companys ceased use of the buildings leased in Newport Beach, California were recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Additionally, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," the Company recorded an impairment charge on the leasehold improvements located at the Newport Beach, California facilities in the amount of $1.3 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. 66 For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Changes in Non Interest Expense (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change restated restated Personnel expense $ 77,508 $ 60,420 $ 17,088 28 % General and administrative and other expense 25,384 17,097 8,287 48 Professional services 9,496 4,374 5,122 117 Equipment expense 5,420 3,689 1,731 47 Occupancy expense 5,018 3,658 1,360 37 Data processing expense 4,387 3,608 779 22 Total operating expense 127,213 92,846 34,367 37 Total non interest expense $ 127,213 $ 92,846 $ 34,367 37 % Operating costs rose by $34.4 million, or 37 percent, as the Company continued to upgrade and expand the staffs of primarily our Information Technology and Internal Audit departments. Although the mortgage operations acquisitions and originations remained substantially unchanged at $22.3 billion for 2005 as compared to $22.2 billion in 2004, we continued to hire personnel to support the current levels of production. Operating costs also increased during 2005 due to the expansion of our wholesale mortgage operations into the Midwest and East Coast including the hiring of mortgage professionals and the assumption of certain premises and operating leases. In addition, an increase in staffing caused an increase of $8.3 million, or 48 percent, in general and administrative and other expense while occupancy expense increased to $5.0 million, or 37 percent, during 2005 as compared to $3.7 million during 2004. In order to accommodate expansion, we entered into premises leases for office space directly surrounding our main corporate facility in Newport Beach, California. The expansion of our operations within a geographically centralized area allows us to maintain our centralized operating approach. Results of Operations by Business Segment We operate four core businesses: the Long Term Investment Operations; the Mortgage Operations; the Commercial Operations; and the Warehouse Lending Operations. 67 Long Term Investment Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income (expense) after provison for loan losses $ (117,151 ) $ 74,604 $ (191,755 ) (257 )% Provision for loan losses 43,139 30,563 12,576 41 Net interest income (expense) after provison for loan losses (160,290 ) 44,041 (204,331 ) (464 ) Realized gain from derivative instruments 203,957 22,595 181,362 803 Change in fair value of derivative instruments (114,490 ) 155,695 (270,185 ) (174 ) Other non interest income (expense) (2,681 ) 3,554 (6,235 ) (175 ) Total non interest income 86,786 181,844 (95,058 ) (52 ) Non interest expense and income taxes 18,259 16,109 2,150 13 Net (loss) earnings $ (91,763 ) $ 209,776 $ (301,539 ) (144 )% Net interest income. Net interest income decreased $191.8 million (257 percent) primarily due to a 29 percent increase in borrowing cost on securitized mortgage borrowings as the one month LIBOR increased approximately 94 basis points in 2006. The long term investment operations acquired $5.8 billion of mortgages from the mortgage and commercial operations. The acquisition of mortgages by the long term investment operations was primarily financed by the securitization of $5.9 billion of securitized mortgages. The adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral remained relatively flat at 0.37 percent during 2006 from 0.39 percent during 2005. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held in the long term mortgage portfolio is calculated by subtracting interest expense on securitized mortgage borrowings, accretion of loan discounts related to the long term investment operations from interest income including realized gains from derivatives on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral, and loans held for investment (2.9 million) and dividing by the average mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral and loans held for investment (47.1 million) in the yield table above. Non interest income. Non interest income for the long term investment operations is primarily derived from realized gains from derivative instruments and change in fair value of derivative instruments. During 2006, non interest income decreased $95.1 million (52 percent) primarily due to increases of $181.4 million in realized gains from derivative instruments offset by a decrease of $270.2 million in change in fair value of derivative instruments. The change in the fair value of the derivatives is the result of the cash receipts received on the derivatives (realized gains on derivatives) compounded by short term borrowing rates rising faster than fixed rate mortgage loans. On January 1, 2006, we elected to change IMCC from a qualified REIT subsidiary to a taxable REIT subsidiary which is consistent with the remaining mortgage operations. The loan portfolio remains as part of the REIT assets while the commercial origination operations, ICCC, will be subject to state and federal income taxes beginning in 2006. 68 For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 74,604 $ 231,944 $ (157,340 ) (68 )% Provision for loan losses 30,563 24,851 5,712 23 Net interest income after provison for loan losses 44,041 207,093 (163,052 ) (79 ) Realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments 22,595 (91,881 ) 114,476 125 Change in fair value of derivative instruments 155,695 96,575 59,120 61 Other non interest income 3,554 14,756 (11,202 ) (76 ) Total non interest income 181,844 19,450 162,394 835 Non interest expense and income taxes 16,109 11,241 4,868 43 Net earnings $ 209,776 $ 215,302 $ (5,526 ) (3 )% Net interest income. Net interest income decreased 68 percent to $74.6 million for 2005 as compared to $231.9 million for 2004 primarily due to a 153 percent increase in borrowing cost on mortgage assets as one month LIBOR increased approximately 200 basis points in 2005. The long term investment operations acquired $12.2 billion of mortgages from the mortgage operations and originated $798.5 million of commercial mortgages. The acquisition and origination of mortgages by the long term investment operations was primarily financed by the securitization of $14.0 billion of securitized mortgages. The adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral declined 52 basis points to 0.39 percent during 2005 as compared to 0.91 percent during 2004. The decline in adjusted net interest margin was primarily due to (1) an increase in short term interest rates, (2) an increase in the amortization of loan premiums, securitization costs and bond discounts as a result of higher than expected mortgage prepayments and, to a lesser extent, (3) higher leverage and lower net interest margins on certain securitized mortgages completed during the second half of 2005, as previously discussed. Adjusted net interest margin on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral is calculated by subtracting interest expense on securitized mortgage borrowings, accretion of loan discounts and cost of derivatives from interest income on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral and dividing by average mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral in the yield table above. Non interest income. Non interest income for our long term investment operations is primarily derived from realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments, change in fair value of derivative instruments, gain (loss) on loans held for sale, gain (loss) on sale of securities, loan servicing income and other fee income. During 2005, non interest income rose by $163.5 million to $179.8 million as compared to $16.3 million during 2004 primarily due to increases of $114.5 million in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments and $59.1 million in change in fair value of derivative instruments. The increase in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments is primarily associated with the increase in one month LIBOR and the change in fair value of derivative instruments is primarily attributable to an increase in future expectations of higher one month LIBOR rates positively affecting the value of derivatives. 69 Mortgage Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income (expense) $ (9,091 ) $ 3,824 $ (12,915 ) (338 )% Provision for loan losses 4,272 4,272 100 Net interest income (expense) after provison for loan losses $ (13,363 ) $ 3,824 $ (17,187 ) (449 ) Gain on sale of loans 92,778 132,035 (39,257 ) (30 ) Provision for repurchases (7,367 ) (5,796 ) (1,571 ) (27 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (34,000 ) (4,465 ) (29,535 ) (661 ) Other income (loss) 31,477 (10,351 ) 41,828 404 Non interest expense and income taxes 87,754 100,279 (12,525 ) (12 ) Net (loss) earnings $ (18,229 ) $ 14,968 $ (33,197 ) (222 )% The mortgage operations generates income by securitizing or selling mortgages to permanent investors, including the long term investment operations and, to a lesser extent, earns revenue from fees associated with mortgage servicing rights, master servicing agreements and interest income earned on mortgages held for sale. Net earnings for the mortgage operations decreased $33.2 million (222 percent) primarily due to the following changes: decrease of $12.9 million in net interest income (expense); decrease of $39.3 million in gains from the sale of loans; increase in charges to expense of $29.5 million for the write down of loans held for sale; decrease in non interest expenses of $12.5 million; offset by increase in other income of $41.8 million. Net interest income dropped 338 percent during 2006 as the yields on borrowings for mortgage loans held for sale increased 146 basis points during 2006, primarily the result of a 94 basis point increase in the one month LIBOR during 2006. Gains from the sale of loans decreased 30 percent as a result of lower volumes of mortgages sold to the long term investment operations and third party investors resulted in a decrease in gain (loss) on sale of loans. The mortgage operations sold $12.2 billion to the long term investment operations and third party investors in 2006, 43 percent less than the $21.4 billion sold in 2005. Gain (loss) on sale of loans includes the difference between the price at which we acquire or originate mortgages and the price we receive upon the sale or securitization of mortgages plus or minus direct mortgage origination revenue and costs, e.g. loan and underwriting fees, commissions, appraisal review fees and document processing expenses. Gain on sale of loans acquired or originated by the mortgage operations also includes a premium for the sale of mortgage servicing rights upon the sale or securitization of mortgages. In order to minimize risks associated with the accumulation of mortgages, we seek to securitize or sell mortgages monthly thereby reducing our exposure to interest rate risk and price volatility during the accumulation period of mortgages. Additionally, as required by GAAP, the Company recorded loans held for sale at the lower of cost or market resulting in a $34.0 million write down as current market conditions, such as the widening of credit and bond spreads and a lack of demand for mortgage product forced the loans to 70 drop in value prior to securitization, sale or transfer. The $34.0 million write down was primarily attributable to loans repurchased during the second and fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The mortgage operations are reflected as a stand alone entity for segment financial reporting purposes; however, on the consolidated financial statements inter company loan sales and related gains are eliminated. Other income increased $41.8 million as the Company earned more fees in the current year from loan servicing fees and interest income on custody accounts. Additionally this change includes a $20.5 million increase as a result of a favorable mark to market adjustment on the derivatives at the mortgage operations. Non interest expense and income taxes decreased $12.5 million as operating expenses decreased 25 percent to $77.5 million in 2006. Mortgage acquisitions and originations decreased 44 percent, while personnel expenses decreased 56 percent to $25.0 million in 2006 as compared to $56.2 million for 2005, as the Company reduced personnel levels complementary to the reduced production volume. Also included in operating expenses for 2006 was $2.1 million and $1.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter for contract termination charges and impaired leasehold improvements, respectively, recorded as a result of the Companys move from the Newport Beach, California facilities. The mortgage operations recorded income taxes of $10.3 million for 2006 as compared to a tax benefit of $3.3 million for 2005. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 3,824 $ 14,744 $ (10,920 ) (74 )% Provision for loan losses Net interest income after provison for loan losses $ 3,824 $ 14,744 $ (10,920 ) (74 ) Gain on sale of loans 132,035 137,514 (5,479 ) (4 ) Provision for repurchases (5,796 ) (405 ) (5,391 ) (1331 ) Loss on lower of cost or market writedown (4,465 ) (4,465 ) (100 ) Other income (loss) (10,351 ) (13,261 ) 2,910 22 Non interest expense and income taxes 100,279 95,648 4,631 5 Net earnings $ 14,968 $ 42,944 $ (27,976 ) (65 )% The mortgage operations generates income by securitizing and selling mortgages to permanent investors, including the long term investment operations and to a lesser extent, earns revenue from fees associated with mortgage servicing rights, master servicing agreements and interest income earned on mortgages held for sale. Net earnings for the mortgage operations were $14.9 million during 2005 as compared to $42.9 million during 2004. The decrease in net earnings was primarily due to decreases of $10.9 million in net interest income and $10.5 million in non interest income, offset by an increase in non interest expense and income taxes of $6.5 million. Net interest income dropped 74 percent during 2005 to $3.8 million as compared to $14.7 million for 2004. Although interest income on mortgage assets increased 106 percent to $127.0 million as compared to $61.7 million for 2004, borrowing costs, which are tied to one month LIBOR, increased approximately 200 basis points which caused borrowing costs to increase faster than the adjustments on our assets and resulted in an overall decrease in net interest income. 71  Non interest income decreased 8 percent during 2005 primarily due to a $15.3 million decrease in gain (loss) on sale of loans. Lower volumes of mortgages sold to the long term investment operations and third party investors resulted in a decrease in gain (loss) on sale of loans. The mortgage operations sold $20.9 billion to the long term investment operations and third party investors in 2005, 6 percent less than the $22.2 billion sold in 2004. Gain (loss) on sale of loans includes the difference between the price at which we acquire or originate mortgages and the price we receive upon the sale or securitization of mortgages plus or minus direct mortgage origination revenue and costs, i.e. loan and underwriting fees, commissions, appraisal review fees and document processing expenses. Gain on sale of loans acquired or originated by the mortgage operations also includes a premium for the sale of mortgage servicing rights upon the sale or securitization of mortgages including REMICs and securitized mortgages. In order to minimize risks associated with the accumulation of our mortgages, we seek to securitize or sell mortgages monthly thereby reducing our exposure to interest rate risk and price volatility during the accumulation period of mortgages. Additionally, as required by GAAP, the Company recorded loans held for sale at the lower of cost or market resulting in a $4.5 million write down as current market conditions, such as the widening of credit and bond spreads and a lack of demand for mortgage product forced the loans to drop in value at year end. Additionally, net earnings decreased as non interest expense and income taxes increased $6.5 million as operating expenses increased 39 percent to $103.6 million in 2005. Mortgage acquisitions and originations remained substantially unchanged from period to period however personnel expenses increased 19 percent to $56.2 million in 2005 as compared to $47.1 million for 2004, as a result of increasing staff levels as needed by higher production levels starting in 2004 as well as an increase in infrastructure costs in information technology and internal audit required for compliance to Sarbanes Oxley regulations. Also included in non interest expense are legal and professional fees which increased 197 percent to $10.4 million as compared to $3.5 million for 2004, business promotion expenses which increased 159 percent to $7.5 million as compared to $2.9 million for 2004 and general and administrative expenses which increased to $11.4 million as compared to $8.7 million for 2004. Operating expenses are partially offset when netted against income taxes as the mortgage operations recorded a tax benefit of $3.3 million for 2005 as compared to a tax expense of $20.9 million in 2004 million primarily due to an increase in operating losses at IFC. Commercial Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net interest income $ 158 Non interest income 5,602 Non interest expense and income taxes 13,525 Net loss $ (7,765 ) On January 1, 2006, we elected to convert Impac Commercial Capital Corporation "ICCC" from a qualified REIT subsidiary to a taxable REIT subsidiary. Therefore, there is no corresponding year over year comparison. Net loss for the commercial operations was $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Non interest income was $5.6 million in 2006 as a result of gains on loans sold to IMH, which generated gains for ICCC of $17.9 million, offset by the change in fair value of derivative instruments which was $12.3 million during 2006. The amount of market valuation adjustment on derivative instruments is the result of changes in the expectation of future interest rates. Additionally, non interest expense was $12.1 million and income taxes were $1.5 million. The commercial operations are reflected as a stand alone entity for segment financial reporting purposes; however, on the consolidated financial statements inter company loan sales and related gains are eliminated. 72 The commercial operations provide high credit quality loans which historically have had lower default rates and longer lives. The Company has increased the commercial loan originations by 23 percent during 2006, compared to 2005. Warehouse Lending Operations For the Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2005 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 34,509 $ 55,725 $ (21,216 ) (38 )% Provision for loan losses (85 ) (85 ) (100 ) Non interest income 3,516 7,760 (4,244 ) (55 ) Non interest expense and income taxes 7,539 7,542 (3 ) (0 ) Net earnings $ 30,571 $ 55,943 $ (25,372 ) (45 )% The warehouse lending operations primarily generate net earnings from net interest income earned from the difference between its cost of borrowings and the interest earned on warehouse advances and, to a lesser extent, fees from warehouse lending transactions. The warehouse lending operations provide warehouse financing to affiliated companies, including the mortgage operations, the commercial operations, the long term investment operations and to approved, non affiliated clients, some of which are correspondents of the mortgage and or commercial operations. Net earnings from the warehouse lending operations decreased $25.4 million (45 percent) primarily due to a $21.2 million decrease in net interest income. Net interest income decreased during 2006 as average finance receivables outstanding decreased $77.3 million during 2006. For the Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year ended December 31, 2004 Condensed Statements of Operations Data (dollars in thousands) For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase (Decrease) % Change Net interest income $ 55,725 $ 45,822 $ 9,903 22 % Provision for loan losses 6,076 (6,076 ) (100 ) Non interest income 7,760 10,592 (2,832 ) (27 ) Non interest expense and income taxes 7,542 6,899 643 9 Net earnings $ 55,943 $ 43,439 $ 12,504 29 % Net earnings from the warehouse lending operations were $55.9 million for 2005 as compared to $43.4 million for 2004. The increase in net earnings of $12.5 million was primarily due to a $10.0 million increase in net interest income to $55.7 million during 2005 as compared to $45.8 million during 2004. Net interest income rose for 2005 as one month LIBOR rates increased approximately 200 basis points resulting in higher interest earnings on warehouse advances to affiliated companies. Additionally, net interest income rose 22 percent on year over year basis as total average finance receivables rose 22 percent to $2.8 billion during 2005 as compared to $2.3 billion during 2004. Net earnings were negatively impacted during 2004 as the warehouse lending operations added $6.1 million to loan loss provisions during 2004 as fraudulent warehouse advances were discovered in 2004 which were 73 determined to be impaired. By year end 2004, the warehouse lending operations had a specific allowance for loan losses of $10.7 million for impaired warehouse advances. For calculation of estimated taxable income, deductions for permanently impaired mortgages were taken as a deduction to estimated taxable income for 2004. Refer to Note J. "Segment Reporting" in the notes to consolidated financial statements for financial results of the operating segments and see Item 1. Business for additional detail regarding the operating structure. Liquidity and Capital Resources We recognize the need to have funds available for our operating businesses and our customers demands for obtaining short term warehouse financing until the settlement or sale of mortgages with us or with other investors. It is our policy to have adequate liquidity at all times to cover normal cyclical swings in funding availability and mortgage demand and to allow us to meet abnormal and unexpected funding requirements. We plan to meet liquidity through normal operations with the goal of avoiding unplanned sales of assets or emergency borrowing of funds. Toward this goal, our asset/liability committee, or "ALCO," is responsible for monitoring our liquidity position and funding needs. ALCO participants include senior executives of the mortgage operations, commercial operations and warehouse lending operations. ALCO meets on a weekly basis to review current and projected sources and uses of funds. ALCO monitors the composition of the balance sheet for changes in the liquidity of our assets. Our primary liquidity consists of cash and cash equivalents; short term securities available for sale and maturing mortgages, or "liquid assets." We believe that current cash balances, short term investments, currently available financing facilities, capital raising capabilities and excess cash flows generated from our long term mortgage portfolio will adequately provide for projected funding needs and limited asset growth. Refer to Item 1.A "Business Risk Factors" for additional information regarding risks that could adversely affect our liquidity. Our operating businesses primarily use available funds as follows: acquisition and origination of mortgages by the mortgage and commercial operations; long term investment in mortgages by the long term investment operations; provide short term warehouse advances by the warehouse lending operations; pay interest on debt; distribute common and preferred stock dividends; and pay operating and non operating expenses. Acquisition and origination of mortgages by the mortgage and long term investment operations. During 2006, the mortgage and commercial operations originated or acquired $12.6 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages, of which $5.8 billion were retained by the long term investment operations from the mortgage and commercial operations for long term investment. Capital invested in mortgages is outstanding until we sell or securitize mortgages, which is one of the reasons we attempt to sell or securitize mortgages within 90 days of acquisition or origination. Initial capital invested in mortgages includes premiums paid when mortgages are acquired and originated and our capital investment, or "haircut," required upon financing, which is generally determined by the type of collateral provided. The mortgage operations acquired and originated $11.6 billion of residential mortgages at a weighted average price of 101.68, which were financed with warehouse borrowings from the warehouse lending operations at a haircut generally between 2 percent to 15 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the mortgages. In addition, ICCC originated $983.4 million of commercial mortgages at a weighted average price of 100.02 which were initially financed with short term reverse repurchase financing from the warehouse lending operations at a haircut of generally 3 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the mortgages. Long term investment in mortgages by the long term investment operations. The long term investment operations acquire primarily Alt A mortgages from the mortgage and commercial operations and finance them with 74 reverse repurchase borrowings from the warehouse lending operations at substantially the same terms as the mortgage and commercial operations. When the long term investment operations finance mortgages with long term securitized mortgage borrowings, short term reverse repurchase financing is repaid. Then, depending on credit ratings from national credit rating agencies on our securitized mortgages, we are generally required to provide an over collateralization, or "OC", of 0.35 percent to 1 percent of the principal balance of mortgages securing securitized mortgage financing as compared to a haircut of 2 percent to 10 percent of the principal balance of mortgages securing short term reverse repurchase financing. Our total capital investment in securitized mortgages generally ranges from approximately 2 percent to 5 percent of the principal balance of mortgages securing securitized mortgage borrowings which includes premiums paid upon acquisition of mortgages from the mortgage operations, costs paid for completion of securitized mortgages, costs to acquire derivatives and OC required to achieve desired credit ratings. Commercial mortgages are financed on a long term basis with securitized mortgage borrowings at substantially the same rates and terms as Alt A mortgages. Commercial loans generally have a 3 percent haircut on reverse repurchase lines and initial over collateralization target of 2.75 percent to 3.37 percent Provide short term warehouse advances by the warehouse lending operations. We utilize committed and uncommitted reverse repurchase facilities with various lenders to provide short term warehouse financing to affiliates and non affiliated clients of the warehouse lending operations. The warehouse lending operations provide short term financing to the mortgage and commercial operations and non affiliated clients from the closing of mortgages to their sale or other settlement with investors. The warehouse lending operations generally finance between 90 percent and 98 percent of the fair market value of the principal balance of mortgages, which equates to a haircut requirement of between 10 percent and 2 percent, respectively, at one month LIBOR, plus a spread. The mortgage and commercial operations have uncommitted warehouse line agreements to obtain financing from the warehouse lending operations at one month LIBOR plus a spread during the period that the mortgage operation accumulate mortgages until the mortgages are securitized or sold. As of December 31, 2006, the mortgage and commercial operations had $1.4 billion and $180.4 million, respectively, of warehouse advances outstanding with the warehouse lending operations. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, the warehouse lending operations had $724.0 million of approved warehouse lines available to non affiliated clients, of which $306.3 million was outstanding. Our ability to meet liquidity requirements and the financing needs of our customers is subject to the renewal of our credit and repurchase facilities or obtaining other sources of financing, if required, including additional debt or equity from time to time. Any decision our lenders or investors make to provide available financing to us in the future will depend upon a number of factors, including: our compliance with the terms of our existing credit arrangements; our financial performance; industry and market trends in our various businesses; the general availability of, and rates applicable to, financing and investments; our lenders or investors resources and policies concerning loans and investments; and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. Pay common and preferred stock dividends and trust preferred payments. We paid common stock dividends of $72.3 million and preferred stock dividends of $14.7 million during 2006, which we generated from our operating activities. We are required to distribute a minimum of 90 percent of our taxable income to our stockholders in order to maintain our REIT status, exclusive of the application of any tax loss carry forwards that may be used to offset current period taxable income. Because we pay dividends based on taxable income, dividends may be more or less than net earnings. We paid total regular cash dividends of $0.95 per common share in 2006 which met taxable income distribution requirements for the year. We also paid interest of $9.3 million attributable to the junior subordinated debt issued by the Company in connection with our trust preferred offerings. See "Issuance of Common and Preferred Stock" for a discussion of the terms of our outstanding series of preferred 75 stock and "Note U Trust Preferred Securities" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. A portion of dividends paid to IMHs stockholders came from dividend distributions from the mortgage and commercial operations, a taxable REIT subsidiary, to IMH. During 2006, the mortgage and commercial operations provided a combined dividend distribution of $7.4 million to IMH. Because the mortgage and commercial operations may seek to retain earnings to fund the acquisition and origination of mortgages or to expand their operations, the board of directors of our taxable REIT subsidiaries may decide that the mortgage and commercial operations should cease making dividend distributions in the future. This could reduce the amount of taxable income that would be distributed to IMH stockholders in the form of dividend payment amounts. Our operating businesses are primarily funded as follows: Securitized mortgage borrowings and reverse repurchase agreements; excess cash flows from our long term mortgage portfolio; sale and securitization of mortgages; cash proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred stock; and cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Reverse repurchase agreements and securitized mortgage borrowings. We use reverse repurchase agreements to fund substantially all financing to affiliates and non affiliated clients and for the acquisition and origination of Alt A and commercial mortgages. As we accumulate mortgages, we finance the acquisition of mortgages primarily through borrowings on reverse repurchase facilities with third party lenders. We primarily use uncommitted and committed facilities with major investment banks to finance substantially all warehouse financing, as needed. During 2006 the reverse repurchase facilities borrowing limits amounted to $5.7 billion, of which $1.9 billion was outstanding at December 31, 2006. The warehouse facilities provide us with a higher aggregate credit limit to fund the acquisition and origination of mortgages at terms comparable to those we have received in the past. These warehouse facilities may have certain covenant tests which we are required to satisfy. For a discussion of the Companys compliance with its financial covenants see "Note I Reverse Repurchase Agreements" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we may also receive additional uncommitted interim financing from our lenders in excess of our permanent borrowing limits to finance mortgages during the accumulation phase and prior to securitizations or whole loan sales. From time to time, we may also utilize term reverse repurchase financing provided to us by underwriters who underwrite some of our securitizations. The term reverse repurchase financing funds mortgages that are specifically allocated to securitization transactions, which allows us to reduce overall borrowings outstanding on reverse repurchase agreements with other lenders during the period immediately prior to the settlement of the securitization. Terms and interest rates on the term reverse repurchase facilities are generally lower than on other reverse repurchase agreements. Term reverse repurchase financing are generally repaid within 30 days from the date funds are advanced. We expect to continue to use short term reverse repurchase facilities to fund the acquisition of mortgages. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell, on a whole loan basis, the mortgages securing these facilities, which, depending upon market conditions may result in substantial losses. Additionally, if for any reason the market value of our mortgages securing reverse repurchase facilities decline, our lenders may require us to provide them with additional equity or collateral to secure our borrowings, which may require us to sell mortgages at substantial losses. 76  In order to mitigate the liquidity risk associated with reverse repurchase agreements, we attempt to sell or securitize our mortgages within 90 days from acquisition or origination. Although securitizing mortgages more frequently adds operating and securitization costs, we believe the added cost is offset as liquidity is provided more frequently with less interest rate and price volatility, as the accumulation and holding period of mortgages is shortened. When we have accumulated a sufficient amount of mortgages, we seek to issue securitized mortgages and convert short term advances under reverse repurchase agreements to long term securitized mortgage borrowings. The use of securitized mortgage borrowings provides the following benefits: allows us to use long term financing for the duration of the securitized mortgage asset secured by the underlying mortgages; and eliminates margin calls on the borrowings that are converted from reverse repurchase agreements to securitized mortgage borrowings as well as associated derivatives used to manage interest rate risks on securitized mortgage borrowings. During 2006, we securitized $5.9 billion of mortgages to provide long term financing for the retention of $5.3 billion of primarily Alt A mortgages and $526.6 million of commercial mortgages. Because of the credit profile, historical loss performance and prepayment characteristics of our Alt A mortgages, we have been able to borrow a higher percentage against the principal balance of mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral, which means that we have to provide less initial capital upon completion of securitized mortgages. Capital investment in the securitized mortgages is established at the time securitized mortgages are issued at levels sufficient to achieve desired credit ratings on the securities from credit rating agencies. Excess cash flows from our long term mortgage portfolio. We receive excess cash flows on mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral after distributions are made to investors on securitized mortgage borrowings to the extent cash or other collateral required to maintain desired credit ratings on the securitized mortgages is fulfilled and can be used to provide funding for some of the long term investment operations activities. Excess cash flows represent the difference between principal and interest payments on the underlying mortgages, adjusted by the following: servicing and master servicing fees paid; premiums paid to mortgage insurers; cash payments / receipts on derivatives; interest paid on securitized mortgage borrowings; pro rata early principal prepayments paid on securitized mortgage borrowings; OC requirements; actual losses, net of any gains incurred upon disposition of other real estate owned or acquired in settlement of defaulted mortgages; unpaid interest shortfall; basis risk shortfall; bond writedowns reinstated; and residual cashflow. Sale and securitization of mortgages. We sell and securitize loans in the following ways: When the mortgage and commercial operations accumulate a sufficient amount of mortgages that are intended to be deposited into a securitized mortgage trust, it sells the mortgages to the long term investment operations; 77 When selling mortgages on a whole loan basis, the mortgage operations will accumulate mortgages and enter into sales transactions with third party investors on a monthly basis; and The mortgage and commercial operations sold $5.8 billion of mortgages to the long term investment operations during 2006 and sold $7.1 billion of mortgages to third party investors and through un consolidated REMICs and whole loan sales. The mortgage operations sold mortgage servicing rights on all mortgages sold during 2006. The sale of mortgage servicing rights generated substantially all of its cash, which was used to acquire and originate additional mortgage assets. Since we rely significantly upon sales and securitizations to generate cash proceeds to repay borrowings and to create credit availability, any disruption in our ability to complete sales and securitizations may require us to utilize other sources of financing, which, if available at all, may be on less favorable terms. In addition, delays in closing sales and securitizations of our mortgages increase our risk by exposing us to credit and interest rate risk for this extended period of time. Issuance of Common and Preferred Stock. We have a shelf registration statement that allows us to sell up to $1.0 billion of securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants. By issuing new shares periodically throughout the year, we believe that we were able to utilize new capital more efficiently and profitably. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a common stock sales agreement with Brinson Patrick Securities Corporation (Brinson Patrick) for the sale of up to 7.5 million shares of its common stock from time to time through Brinson Patrick as sales agent. As of December 31, 2005, we sold 363,700 shares of common stock and received net proceeds of $4.2 million. Brinson Patrick received a commission of 3 percent of the gross sales price per share of the shares of common stock sold pursuant to the sales agreement, which amounted to an aggregate commission of $131,000. No shares were sold during 2006. On September 30, 2005, the Company also entered into a Preferred Stock sales agreement with Brinson Patrick, for the sale of up to 800,000 shares of its 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series C Preferred Stock) from time to time through Brinson Patrick as sales agent. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we sold 72,800 shares of Series C Preferred Stock, and received net proceeds of approximately $1.7 million. Brinson Patrick received a commission of 3 percent of the gross sales price per share of the shares of preferred stock sold pursuant to the sales agreement, which amounted to an aggregate commission of $52,000. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we sold 60,100 shares, received net proceeds of $1.4 million and paid an aggregate commission of $43,000. In May 2004, we completed the sale of 2.0 million shares of 9.375% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25.00 per share, or "series B preferred stock." Dividends on the series B preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year. The shares of series B preferred stock have no stated maturity, are not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption and are not convertible into any other securities. Holders of shares of series B preferred stock generally have no voting rights, but will have limited voting rights if the Company fails to pay dividends for six or more quarters and in certain other events. The Company may not redeem the series B preferred stock until May 29, 2009 except in limited circumstance to preserve the Companys status as a real estate investment trust. On or after May 29, 2009, the Company may, at its option, redeem the series B preferred stock in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, for cash at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared), if any, to and including the redemption date. In November and December, 2004, we completed the sale of an aggregate of 4.3 million shares of 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25.00 per share, or "series C preferred stock." We have also sold 72,800 and 71,200 shares of series C preferred stock during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends on the series C preferred stock are payable quarterly in arrears on or before March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year. The shares of series C preferred stock have no stated maturity, are not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption and are not convertible into any other securities. Holders of shares of series C preferred stock generally have no voting rights, but will have limited voting rights if the Company fails to pay dividends for six or more quarters and in certain other events. The Company may not redeem the series C preferred stock until November 23, 2009 except in limited circumstances to preserve the 78 Companys status as a real estate investment trust. On or after November 23, 2009, the Company may, at its option, redeem the series C preferred stock in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, for cash at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared), if any, to and including the redemption date. Cash proceeds from the issuance of trust preferred securities. During 2005, the Company formed four wholly owned trust subsidiaries (Trusts) for the purpose of issuing an aggregate of $99.2 million of trust preferred securities (the Trust Preferred Securities). The proceeds from the sale thereof were invested in junior subordinated debt issued by the Company. All proceeds from the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities and the common securities issued by the Trusts are invested in junior subordinated notes (Notes), which are the sole assets of the Trusts. The Trusts pay dividends on the Trust Preferred Securities at the same rate as paid by the Company on the Notes held by the Trusts. The Company received net proceeds of $93.2 million from the issuance of the trust preferred securities. See Note U to the consolidated financial statements for a further description of the trust preferred securities. Cash proceeds from the issuance of stock options. During 2006 and 2005, the Company received $755 thousand and $6.4 million in cash proceeds, respectively, from the issuance of common stock associated with the exercise of stock options. The changes in cash flows for operating, investing and financing activities, presents the 2005 and 2004 restated cash flows. The Company restated the cashflow statements for 2005 and 2004 to eliminate the effects of intercompany transfers of loans. Operating Activities. Net cash used in operating activities was $5.0 billion for 2006 as compared to $13.1 billion for 2005 and $17.1 billion for 2004. For 2006, the purchase of mortgages, of $12.7 billion was the primary use of cash in operating activities. Funds used in operating activities during 2006 were partially offset by sales of mortgages of $7.4 billion. Investing Activities. Net cash provided by investing activities was $9.1 billion for 2006 as compared to $9.3 billion for 2005 and $4.3 billion for 2004. For 2006, 2005 and 2004 net cash of $9.0 billion, $9.9 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively, was provided by principal repayments on our securitized mortgage collateral. Financing Activities. Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was $(4.1) billion for 2006, $3.6 billion for 2005 and $13.0 billion for 2004. For 2006, 2005 and 2004, net cash (used in) provided by as a result of securitized mortgage financing, net of principal repayments was $(3.5) billion, $2.7 billion and $12.7 billion, respectively. Inflation The consolidated financial statements and corresponding notes to the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased costs of our operations during each of 2006, 2005 and 2004. Unlike industrial companies, nearly all of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on our performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Inflation affects our operations primarily through its effect on interest rates, since interest rates normally increase during periods of high inflation and decrease during periods of low inflation. During periods of increasing interest rates, demand for mortgages and a borrowers ability to qualify for mortgage financing in a purchase transaction may be adversely affected. During periods of decreasing interest rates, borrowers may prepay their mortgages, which in turn may adversely affect our yield and subsequently the value of our portfolio of mortgage assets. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we sold whole pools of loans with recourse for borrower defaults. When whole pools are sold as opposed to securitized, the third party has recourse against us for certain borrower defaults. Because the loans are no longer on our balance sheet, the recourse component is considered a guarantee. During 2006, we sold $6.3 billion of loans with recourse for borrower defaults compared to $8.1 billion in 2005. We maintained a $15.3 million reserve related to these guarantees as of December 31, 2006 compared with a 79 reserve of $10.4 million as of December 31, 2005. During 2006 we paid $183.8 million in cash to repurchase loans sold to third parties. In 2005, we paid $29.7 million in cash to repurchase loans sold to third parties in prior periods. We subsequently finance or sell the repurchased loans. See disclosures in the consolidated notes to the financial statements under "Commitments and Contingencies" for other arrangements that qualify as off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2006, we had the following contractual obligations (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less than one year One to Three Years Three to Five Years More than Five Years Securitized mortgage borrowings (1) $ 20,563,911 $ 8,225,853 $ 7,349,986 $ 3,100,915 $ 1,887,157 Reverse repurchase agreements 1,880,395 1,880,395 Rate locked mortgage pipeline 772,738 772,738 Trust preferred securities 96,250 96,250 Premises operating lease agreements 77,841 10,879 16,737 15,160 35,064 Total Contractual Obligations $ 23,391,135 $ 10,889,865 $ 7,366,723 $ 3,116,075 $ 2,018,471 (1)Payments on securitized mortgage borrowings are based on anticipated receipts of principal on underlying mortgage loan collateral using expected prepayment rates. If actual mortgage prepayment rates differ from our estimates, the payment amounts will vary from the reported amounts. For additional information regarding our commitments refer to "Note J Securitized Mortgage Borrowings" and "Note P Commitments and Contingencies" in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS The following table displays our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends (1)(2): For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 restated restated restated restated Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (4) 1.26 1.63 1.73 1.32 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends (4) 1.24 1.61 1.73 (3) 1.32 (3) (1)Earnings used in computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges consist of net earnings before income taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest expense on debt and the portion of rental expense deemed to represent the interest factor. (2)Financial information for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 reflect accounting restatements and reclassifications for prior periods. In addition, prior to the consolidation of IFC on July 1, 2003, the method used to calculate the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends reflected the consolidated net earnings of IMH less net earnings of IFC plus dividend distributions from IFC to IMH. (3)No preferred stock dividends were paid during these periods as we did not have any preferred stock outstanding. (4)Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges. The amount of the deficiency for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $77.1 million. 80  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK General Overview Although we manage credit, prepayment and liquidity risk in the normal course of business, we consider interest rate risk to be a significant market risk, which could potentially have the largest material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Since a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from net interest income, we strive to manage our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities to generate what we believe to be an appropriate contribution from net interest income. When interest rates fluctuate, profitability can be adversely affected by changes in the fair market value of our assets and liabilities and by the interest spread earned on interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. We derive income from the differential spread between interest earned on interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities. Any change in interest rates affects income received and income paid from assets and liabilities in varying and typically in unequal amounts. Changing interest rates may compress or widen our interest rate margins and affect overall earnings. Interest rate risk management is the responsibility of the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), which is comprised of senior management and reports results of interest rate risk analysis to the IMH board of directors on at least a quarterly basis. ALCO establishes policies that monitor and coordinate sources, uses and pricing of funds. ALCO also attempts to reduce the volatility in net interest income by managing the relationship of interest rate sensitive assets to interest rate sensitive liabilities. In addition, various modeling techniques are used to value interest sensitive mortgage backed securities, including interest only securities. The value of investment securities available for sale is determined using a discounted cash flow model using prepayment rate, discount rate and credit loss assumptions. Our investment securities portfolio is available for sale, which requires us to perform market valuations of the securities in order to properly record the portfolio. We continually monitor interest rates of our investment securities portfolio as compared to prevalent interest rates in the market. We do not currently maintain a securities trading portfolio and are not exposed to market risk as it relates to trading activities. Changes in Interest Rates Interest rate risk management policies are intended to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates primarily associated with cash flows on our adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. Our primary objective is to limit our exposure to the variability in future cash flows attributable to the variability of one month LIBOR, which is the underlying index of our adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. We also monitor on an ongoing basis the prepayment risks that arise in fluctuating interest rate environments. Our interest rate risk management policies are formulated with the intent to offset potential adverse effects of changing interest rates on cash flows on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings. We primarily acquire for long term investment ARMs and hybrid ARMs and, FRMs. ARMs are generally subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. This means that the interest rate of each ARM is limited to upwards or downwards movements on its periodic interest rate adjustment date, generally six months, or over the life of the mortgage. Periodic caps limit the maximum interest rate change, which can occur on any interest rate change date to generally a maximum of 1 percent per semiannual adjustment. Also, each ARM has a maximum lifetime interest rate cap. Generally, borrowings are not subject to the same periodic or lifetime interest rate limitations. During a period of rapidly increasing or decreasing interest rates, financing costs could increase or decrease at a faster rate than the periodic interest rate adjustments on mortgages would allow, which could affect net interest income. In addition, if market rates were to exceed the maximum interest rate limits of our ARMs, borrowing costs could increase while interest rates on ARMs would remain constant. We also acquire hybrid ARMs that have initial fixed interest rate periods generally ranging from two to seven years which subsequently convert to ARMs. During a rapidly increasing or decreasing interest rate environment financing costs would increase or decrease more rapidly than would interest rates on mortgages, which would remain fixed until their next interest rate adjustment date. In order to provide protection against potential resulting basis risk shortfall on the related liabilities, we purchase derivatives. The use of derivatives to manage risk associated with changes in interest rates is an integral part of our strategy. The amount of cash payments or cash receipts on derivatives is determined by (1) the notional amount of the derivative and (2) current interest rate levels in relation to the various strikes or coupons of derivatives during a 81 particular time period. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had notional balances of interest rate swaps, caps, and floors of $19.5 billion and $20.2 billion, respectively, with net fair values of $132.5 million and $248.2 million, respectively, pertaining to our current and pending securitizations. By using derivatives, we attempt to minimize the effect of both upward and downward interest rate changes on our long term mortgage portfolio. Our goal is to moderate significant changes to base case net interest income, including net cash flows from derivatives, as interest rates change. We primarily acquire swaps to essentially convert our adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings into fixed rate borrowings. For instance, we receive one month LIBOR on swaps, which offsets interest expense on adjustable rate securitized mortgage borrowings, and we pay a fixed interest rate. The interest rate risk profile of our balance sheet is more sensitive to changes in interest rates related to our liabilities. We use derivatives extensively in order to manage the interest rate, or price risk, inherent in our assets, liabilities and loan commitments. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to moderate the effect of changes in interest rates on our earnings over time. Our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term. The success of our interest rate risk management strategy is largely dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of our loan production operation and long term investment operations in various interest rate environments. There are many market factors that affect the performance of our interest rate risk management activities including interest rate volatility, prepayment behavior, the shape of the yield curve and the spread between mortgage interest rates and treasury or swap rates. The success of this strategy affects our net earnings. This effect, which can be either positive or negative, can be material. We measure the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in interest rates affecting interest sensitive assets and liabilities using various simulations. These simulations take into consideration changes that may occur in investment and financing strategies, the forward yield curve, interest rate risk management strategies, mortgage prepayment speeds and the volume of mortgage acquisitions and originations. As part of various interest rate simulations, we calculate the effect of potential changes in interest rates on our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and their affect on overall earnings. The simulations assume instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates and to what degree those shifts affect net interest income. The following table estimates the financial effect to base case, including net cash flow from derivatives, from various instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates based on both our consolidated structure and un consolidated structure, which refers to the notional amount of derivatives that are not recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollar amounts in millions): Changes in base case as of December 31, 2006 (1) Excluding net cash flow on derivatives Net cash flow on derivatives Including net cash flow on derivatives Instantaneous and Parallel Change in Interest Rates (2) $ (%) $ $ (%) Up 300 basis points, or 3% (3) (351.9 ) (357 ) 332.0 (20.0 ) (10 ) Up 200 basis points, or 2% (224.4 ) (228 ) 221.3 (3.2 ) (2 ) Up 100 basis points, or 1% (108.5 ) (110 ) 110.6 2.1 2 Down 100 basis points or 1% 83.8 85 (108.6 ) (24.8 ) (13 ) Down 200 basis points or 2% 159.5 162 (217.0 ) (57.5 ) (29 ) Down 300 basis points or 3% 230.2 233 (325.4 ) (95.2 ) (47 ) 82 Changes in base case as of December 31, 2005 (1) Excluding net cash flow on derivatives Net cash flow on derivatives Including net cash flow on derivatives Instantaneous and Parallel Change in Interest Rates (2) $ (%) $ $ (%) Up 300 basis points, or 3% (3) (394.0 ) 1,340 367.0 (27.0 ) (21 ) Up 200 basis points, or 2% (263.2 ) 895 244.6 (18.5 ) (14 ) Up 100 basis points, or 1% (129.9 ) 442 122.3 (7.6 ) (6 ) Down 100 basis points or 1% 125.8 (428 ) (122.3 ) 3.4 3 Down 200 basis points or 2% 251.8 (856 ) (244.6 ) 7.1 6 Down 300 basis points or 3% 379.3 1,290 (366.6 ) 12.6 10 (1)The dollar and percentage changes represent base case for the next twelve months versus the change in base case using various instantaneous and parallel interest rate change simulations, excluding the effect of amortization of loan discounts to base case. (2)Instantaneous and parallel interest rate changes over and under the projected forward yield curve. (3)This simulation was added to our analysis as it is relevant in light of the interest rate environment as of December 31, 2006 and 2007 and the projected forward yield curves for 2006 and 2007. In the previous table, the up 100 basis point scenario as of December 31, 2006 represents our projection of the net change from base case net interest income, which is derived from assumptions as previously discussed, if market interest rates were to immediately decline by 100 basis points. This means that we increase interest rates at all data points along our projected forward yield curve by 100 basis points and recalculate our projection of net interest income over the next 12 months. In addition, based on changes in interest rates, or changes in our forward yield curve, our model adjusts mortgage prepayment rates and recalculates amortization of acquisition and securitization costs and net cash receipts or payments on derivates as part of the calculation of net interest income. Thus, if a 100 basis point interest rate increase occurred, the projected volatility to net interest income is positively impacted through our use of derivatives. We estimated net interest income along with net cash flows from derivatives for the next twelve months using balance sheet data, the notional amount of derivatives as of December 31, 2006 and 12 month projections of the following primary drivers affecting net interest income: future interest rates using forward yield curves, which are considered market consensus estimates of future interest rates; mortgage acquisition and originations; mortgage prepayment rate assumptions; and forward swap rates. We refer to the 12 month projection of net interest income along with the 12 month projection of net cash flows on derivatives as the "base case." For financial reporting purposes, net cash flows from derivatives are included in realized gain (loss) from derivative instruments on the consolidated financial statements. However, for purposes of interest rate risk analysis we include net cash flows from derivatives in our base case simulations as we acquire derivatives to offset the effect that changes in interest rates have on variable borrowing costs, such as securitized mortgage and warehouse borrowings. We believe that including net cash flows from derivatives in our interest rate risk analysis presents a more useful simulation of the effect of changing interest rates on net cash flows generated by our long term mortgage portfolio. Once the base case has been established, we "shock" the base case with instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates in 100 basis point increments upward and downward. Calculations are made for each of the defined instantaneous and parallel shifts in interest rates over or under the forward yield curve used to determine the base case and include any associated changes in projected mortgage prepayment rates caused by changes in interest rates. The results of each 100 basis point change in interest rates are then compared against the base case to determine the estimated dollar and percentage change to base case. The simulations consider the affect of interest rate changes on interest sensitive assets and liabilities as well as derivatives. The simulations also consider the impact that instantaneous and parallel shift in interest rates have on prepayment rates and the resulting affect of accelerating or decelerating amortization of premium and securitization costs. 83  Over the past year, the interest rate risk profile shifted from modestly liability sensitive to modestly asset sensitive. This occurred as part of a deliberate and long term optimization strategy of accumulating hedged mortgage assets during 2006. Other factors contributing to the shift in the interest rate risk profile include the increase in the overall level of interest rates, the flattening of the yield curve and changes in expected prepayment behavior. However, since our estimates are based upon numerous assumptions, actual sensitivity to interest rate changes could vary if actual experience differs from the assumptions used. The following table presents the extent to which changes in interest rates and changes in the volume of interest rate sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities have affected interest income and interest expense during the periods indicated. Information is provided on mortgage assets and borrowings on mortgage assets, only, with respect to the following: changes attributable to changes in volume (changes in volume multiplied by prior rate); changes attributable to changes in rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume); changes in interest due to both rate and volume; and net change. Year Ended December 31, 2006 over 2005 Volume Rate Rate/Volume Net Change (in thousands) Increase (decrease) in: Subordinated securities collateralized by mortgages $ (387 ) $ 3,909 $ (915 ) $ 2,607 Mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral (83,557 ) 155,569 (12,243 ) 59,769 Mortgages held for investment and held for sale (44,682 ) 3,940 (1,079 ) (41,821 ) Finance receivables (4,452 ) 6,504 (1,424 ) 628 Change in interest income on mortgage assets (133,078 ) 169,922 (15,661 ) 21,183 Securitized mortgage borrowings (75,824 ) 369,722 (30,480 ) 263,418 Reverse repurchase agreements (32,096 ) 39,788 (10,489 ) (2,797 ) Change in interest expense on borrowings on mortgage assets (107,920 ) 409,510 (40,969 ) 260,621 Change in net interest income on mortgage assets $ (25,158 ) $ (239,588 ) $ 25,308 $ (239,438 ) Year Ended December 31, 2005 over 2004 Volume Rate Rate/Volume Net Change (in thousands) Increase (decrease) in: Subordinated securities collateralized by mortgages $ 1,497 $ (2,579 ) $ (1,026 ) $ (2,108 ) Mortgages held as securitized mortgage collateral 383,337 36,804 22,800 442,941 Mortgages held for investment and held for sale 43,179 10,059 4,107 57,345 Finance receivables (7,740 ) 4,422 (1,368 ) (4,686 ) Change in interest income on mortgage assets 420,273 48,706 24,513 493,492 Securitized mortgage borrowings 217,886 215,106 132,193 565,185 Reverse repurchase agreements 14,756 39,169 9,993 63,918 Change in interest expense on borrowings on mortgage assets 232,642 254,275 142,186 629,103 Change in net interest income on mortgage assets $ 187,631 $ (205,569 ) $ (117,673 ) $ (135,611 )  
</SECTION>
