<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: Protalix BioTherapeutics, Inc.
CIK: 0001006281
SIC: 2836
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070330
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, particularly with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Overview Our only business is conducted by our wholly owned subsidiary, Protalix Ltd., which we acquired through a reverse merger transaction effective December 31, 2006. The accounting treatment for the merger transaction was a recapitalization and as such the results of operations discussed below are those of Protalix Ltd. Prior to the merger transaction, we had not conducted any operations for several years. Protalix Ltd. was originally incorporated in Israel in December 1993. We are a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company that is developing and producing recombinant therapeutic proteins that are expressed through our proprietary plant cell system. Recombinant therapeutic proteins are proteins that are produced by different genetically modified organisms following the insertion of the relevant DNA into their genome and are the basis of most biopharmaceutical drugs currently under development. We are leveraging our plant cell culture and bioreactor technology for the production of recombinant therapeutic proteins, and we are currently developing several such biotherapeutic products. Our patented plant cell system enables the expression in plant cells of specific human genes, most often genes coding for proteins of pharmaceutical or therapeutic value. Once the plant cells produce a therapeutic protein, such protein may be grown on an industrial scale in our proprietary bioreactor system. Subsequently, the protein is extracted from the cells and purified to a clinical grade. Our system presents a proprietary method for the production of recombinant proteins that we believe is safe and scalable and may allow for the cost effective industrial scale production of such recombinant human therapeutic proteins. Our lead product candidate, prGCD, is a proprietary plant cell expressed recombinant Glucocerebrosidase enzyme based protein for the treatment of Gaucher Disease. In July 2005, we received FDA approval of our Investigational New Drug application, or IND, for prGCD, allowing us to initiate an FDA approved clinical development program for prGCD and which does not require us to conduct Phase II clinical trials. The Phase I clinical trial was completed in June 2006. We have submitted an application for FDA approval to commence a Phase III pivotal trial of prGCD, which we expect to commence in 2007. We believe that we have demonstrated the potential of our plant cell manufacturing platform to become a safe and efficacious expression technology for the manufacturing of a wide variety of biopharmaceutical products. Accordingly, we are employing a two pronged business strategy that enables us to pursue our goal of becoming a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company. In addition to our development of prGCD, we are using our protein expression technology to develop an innovative proprietary product pipeline. We are evaluating and initiating additional internal research programs through collaboration agreements with academic institutions, such as the Yeda Research and Development Company Limited, the technology transfer arm of the Weizmann Institute of Science. In addition, we continually review and consider development and commercialization alliances with corporate partners in specific and identified markets worldwide for products or territories in order to enable us to optimize our resources and effectively penetrate target markets. We recently entered into such an agreement with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in September 2006. Since its inception in December 1993, Protalix Ltd. has generated significant losses in connection with the research and development of its technology, including the clinical development of prGCD, and at December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $20.5 million. Since we do not generate revenue from any of our product candidates, we expect to continue to generate losses in connection with the continued clinical development of prGCD and the research and development activities relating to our technology and other drug candidates. Such research and development activities are budgeted to expand over time and will require further resources if we are to be successful. As a result, we believe that our operating losses are likely to be substantial over the next several years. We will need to obtain additional funds to further develop our research and development programs. 32 Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements appearing at the end of this Annual Report. We believe that the accounting policies below are critical for one to fully understand and evaluate our financial condition and results of operations. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which we prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate such estimates and judgments, including those described in greater detail below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Functional Currency The currency of the primary economic environment in which our operations are conducted is the dollar. As a development stage company with no significant source of revenues, we considered the currency of the primary economic environment to be the currency in which we expend cash. Most of our expenses and capital expenditures are incurred in dollars, and a significant source of our financing has been provided in U.S. dollars. Research and Development Expense We expect our research and development expense to increase as we continue to develop our product candidates. Research and development expense consists of: internal costs associated with research and development activities; payments made to third party contract research organizations, contract manufacturers, investigative sites, and consultants; manufacturing development costs; personnel related expenses, including salaries, benefits, travel, and related costs for the personnel involved in research and development; activities relating to the advancement of product candidates through preclinical studies and clinical trials; and facilities and other allocated expenses, which include direct and allocated expenses for rent and maintenance of facilities, as well as laboratory and other supplies. These costs and expenses are partially funded by grants we received from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS. For additional information regarding the grant process, see Business Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984 in Item 1 of this Annual Report. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive grants from the OCS in amounts sufficient for our operations, if at all. We have multiple research and development projects ongoing at any one time. We utilize our internal resources, employees, and infrastructure across multiple projects and track time spent by employees on specific projects. We are required to do so by the OCS in order to qualify for the grants we receive for our different projects. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that significant investment in product development is a competitive necessity and plan to continue these investments in order to realize the potential of our product candidates. From inception in December 1993 through December 31, 2006, we have incurred gross research and development expenses in the aggregate of $17.7 million, which includes salaries and related expenses equal to $7.2 million (of which share based compensation was $1.8 million), subcontractors expenses of $3.1 million, and expenses relating to materials and consumables of $2.7 million. These expenses were partially offset by grants received from the OCS totaling $5.1 million. We expect our research and development expenditures to increase significantly in the near future in connection with the anticipated commencement of the Phase III clinical trial for prGCD. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other related costs, including share based compensation expense, for persons serving as our executive, finance, accounting and administration functions. Other general 33 and administrative expense includes facility related costs not otherwise included in research and development expense, costs associated with industry and trade shows and professional fees for legal and accounting services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase as we add additional personnel and continue to comply with the reporting and other obligations applicable to public companies in the United States. From inception in December 1993 through December 31, 2006, we have spent $9.0 million on general and administrative expense, including share based compensation expense of $4.1 million for options granted to employees and consultants. Financial Expense and Income Financial Expense and Income consists of the following: interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents; interest expense on short term bank credit and loan; and expense or income resulting from fluctuations of the New Israeli Shekel (NIS), in which a portion of our assets and liabilities are denominated, against the United States Dollar and other foreign currencies. Share based compensation The discussion below regarding share based compensation relates to share based compensation paid by Protalix Ltd., our wholly owned subsidiary. Until December 31, 2005, we accounted for employee share based compensation in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25), and related interpretations. Under APB 25, compensation expense is based on the difference, if any, on the date of the grant, between the fair value of our ordinary shares and the exercise price. In addition, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation(SFAS 123), we disclosed pro forma data assuming we had accounted for employee share option grants using the fair value based method defined in SFAS 123. We apply Emerging Issue Task Force (EITF) 96 18, Accounting for Equity Instruments That Are Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services with respect to options granted in consideration of services granted by consultants. As of January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R), using the modified prospective method. This new standard requires measurement of share based compensation cost for all share based awards at the fair value on the grant date and recognition of share based compensation over the service period for awards that we expect will vest. The fair value of stock options is determined based on the number of shares granted and the price of our ordinary shares, and calculated based on the Black Scholes valuation model, which is consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for options in footnote disclosures required under SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. We recognize such value as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method under SFAS 123R. Due to our adoption of SFAS 123R, we no longer have employee share based compensation awards subject to variable accounting treatment. The cumulative effect of our adoption of SFAS 123R, as of January 1, 2006, was not material. 34 The following table illustrates the pro forma effect on loss and loss per share assuming we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to our share based employee compensation: Year Ended December 31, Period from December 27, 1993 through December 31 2004 2005 2005 (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) Net loss as reported ($2,421) ($5,746) ($11,122) Add: share based employee compensation expense included in the reported net loss 149 509 732 Deduct: share based employee compensation expense determined under fair value method (170) (539) (788) Pro forma net loss ($2,442) ($5,776) ($11,178) Net loss per share of common stock: Basic as reported ($0.13) ($0.31) Basic pro forma ($0.13) ($0.31) Diluted as reported ($0.13) ($0.31) Diluted pro forma ($0.13) ($0.31) The fair value of options granted to employees during 2005 was $939,000. No options were granted during 2004. The fair value of each option granted is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model, with the following weighted average assumptions (determined as described following the table): 2005 2006 Dividend yield 0% 0% Expected volatility 54% 44% Risk free interest rate 3.83% 4.77% Expected life in years 5.7 5.9 Protalix Ltd. had multiple classes of stock before the conversion of all preferred shares into ordinary shares in September 2006. Through December 31, 2005, Protalix Ltd. considered the three commonly used methods described by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (the AICPA) practice aid, Valuation of Privately Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation, and determined that the Probability Weighted Expected Return Method is the appropriate method to value its securities. We chose this method because it is forward looking and incorporates future economic events and outcomes into the determination of value at the time of calculation. The method is limited, as are all forward looking methods, in that it relies on a number of assumptions. Under the Probability Weighted Expected Return Method, the value of the ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd. is estimated based upon an analysis of future values for the enterprise assuming various future outcomes. Share value is based upon the probability weighted present value of expected future investment returns, considering each of the possible future outcomes available to the enterprise, as well as the rights of each share class. Although the future outcomes considered in any given valuation model will vary based upon the enterprises facts and circumstances, common future outcomes modeled might include an initial public offering, merger or sale, dissolution, or continued operation as a viable private enterprise. The Probability Weighted Expected Return Method analysis presents value afforded to shareholders under four possible scenarios. Three of the scenarios assume a shareholder realization, either through an initial public offering, sale, merger or liquidation. The last scenario assumes operations continue as a private company and no realization transaction occurs. Fair value calculations of the ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd. were performed for dates close to the dates on which preferred shares were issued to third parties. We considered the issuance price of each series of preferred shares to third parties in the calculation of the fair value of the ordinary shares. For each of the first three realization scenarios, estimated future and present values for each of the share classes were calculated utilizing assumptions which consisted of the following: 35 expected pre money value at the realization date; standard deviation around the above pre money value; expected date of the realization scenario occurring; standard deviation around the expected realization scenario occurrence date (in days); and an appropriate risk adjusted discount rate. SFAS 123R allows companies to estimate the expected term of the option rather than simply using the contractual term of an option. Because of lack of data on past option exercises by employees, the expected term of the options could not be based on historic exercise patterns. Accordingly, we adopted the simplified method as stipulated in the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No.107, Share Based Payment (SAB 107), according to which companies that cannot provide a good estimation regarding their options expected life, may calculate the expected term as the average between the vesting date and the expiration date, assuming the option was granted as a plain vanilla option. SAB 107 defines plain vanilla share options as those having the following characteristics: share options are granted at the money; exercisability is conditional only on performing service through the vesting date; if an employee terminates service prior to vesting, the employee forfeits the share options; if an employee terminates service after vesting, the employee has a limited period of time (typically 30 90 days) to exercise the share options; and share options are nontransferable and nonhedgeable. All of the outstanding options granted by Protalix Ltd. were granted at an exercise price that was lower than the then share price. Accordingly, we assumed that the exercise period will on average be shorter than the average period between the vesting and the expiration of the options. However, due to the lack of information regarding exercise behavior, we implemented the methodology proposed above for the calculation of the expected term for all grants including those that were in the money. In performing the valuation, we assumed an expected 0% dividend yield in the previous years and in the next years. We do not have a dividend policy and given our development stage, dividends are not expected in the foreseeable future, if at all. SFAS 123R stipulates a number of factors that should be considered when estimating the expected volatility, including the implied volatility of traded options, historical volatility and the period that the shares of the company are being publicly traded. As we do not have any traded shares or options, the expected volatility figures used in this valuation have been calculated by using the historical volatility of traded shares of similar companies. In addition, we examined the standard deviation of shares of additional biotechnology companies that engage in research of cells and other relevant developments. We found that the standard deviation of the shares of comparable companies was in the range of 40% 60% over periods of three to six years. The volatility used for each grant differed based on its expected term. For the term of each grant of our options, the historical volatility was calculated based upon the overall trading history of the common stock of comparable companies. The risk free interest rate in the table above has been based on the implied yield of U.S. federal reserve zero coupon government bonds. The remaining term of the bonds used for each valuation was equal to the expected term of the grant. This methodology has been applied to all grants valued by us. SFAS 123R requires the use of a risk free interest rate based on the implied yield currently available on zero coupon government issues of the country in whose currency the exercise price is expressed, with a remaining term equal to the expected life of the option being valued. This requirement has been applied for all grants valued as part of this report. Ordinarily, a company will value options to acquire shares of common stock that are traded on a recognized exchange based on quotations of completed transactions in the shares, typically at the last quoted sales price on the valuation date because quoted market prices usually provide the most reliable measure of fair value. However, in certain situations, the fair value of stock options is not readily determinable by reference to the last quoted sales price. We have determined that it is not appropriate to base the fair value of the stock options granted to our consultants and non employees on the last quoted sales price of our common stock as reported on the OTC Bulletin Board, on which quotations for the common stock were displayed throughout 2006, for the following reasons. The merger was consummated on December 31, 2006; therefore, all quoted sales prices of the common stock through December 31, 2006 did not fully reflect the value attributable to the operations of Protalix Ltd. Further, the trading volume 36 for the common stock throughout 2006 was very thin and trades were infrequent, which is common for a shell company that has no business operations. The average daily trading volume of the common stock during 2006 was approximately 800 shares. Under such circumstances, a small sales volume can have a disproportionate impact on sales price, a strong indication that the share price did not reflect true market valuation. Trading volume and trade frequency since December 31, 2006 also does not provide a guide to determining fair value because to date more than 99% of our shares are not registered and available for sale in the public market, the number of trades in the public market have been infrequent and the average daily volume continues to be very low. Therefore, we believe it is appropriate for the fair value of the options granted to our consultants and non employees to be valued at fair value as determined in good faith by our management. To determine the fair value of the options granted to consultants and non employees, we reviewed all transactions involving the sale of shares of Protalix Ltd. during the last half of 2006 that were negotiated on an arms length basis between independent and willing buyers and sellers, which we believe is a reliable indicator of fair value. We determined that the relevant share transaction was the merger itself, which was effected pursuant to a merger agreement executed in August 2006 and negotiated on an arms length basis with our then existing management. Concurrent with the execution of the merger agreement, certain investors, none of which were shareholders of Protalix Ltd. and one of which was the controlling shareholder of our company at that time, negotiated, on an arms length basis, with Protalix Ltd. to purchase ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd. for $15,000,000 in cash (see Note 6i to our consolidated financial statements). The terms of the share purchase agreement provided the investors with the right to exchange their ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd. at an exchange ratio that would entitle them to 15% of the outstanding share capital of our company, subsequent to the merger. In connection with this exchange, the investors would pay an additional $123,000 in cash. The proceeds from the purchase of the ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd., when added to the cash balance of our company that existed at the date of the closing of the merger, which was $877,000, resulted in a total investment of $16,000,000 in exchange for a 15% interest in our company subsequent to the reverse merger with Protalix Ltd. In both the share issuance for $15,000,000 and the subsequent merger transaction, the implied aggregate fair value of Protalix Ltd. after giving effect to the merger was approximately $1.50 per share. We believe the per share value determined in August is the reliable indicator of the fair value of the ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd., as well as our common stock as of December 31, 2006, subsequent to the merger, because there were no other material transactions or developments affecting Protalix Ltd. between August and December 2006. Therefore, based on the foregoing, we have determined that the basis for determining the fair value of the common stock underlying the options granted to consultants and non employees was $1.50 per share as of December 31, 2006. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 Revenues No revenues were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2006. Revenues were $150,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The revenues were generated in connection with our achievement of development milestones under a research and development program with a third party. This program was completed during fiscal year 2005, and $150,000 of development milestones payments payable to us in connection therewith were made in 2005. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses were $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $2.3 million, or 49%, from $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase resulted primarily from the increase of $1.2 million in development expenses related to salaries for personnel involved in research and development and $0.7 million in related materials and general development expenses. The increase was partially offset by $800,000 from grants from the OCS equal to $1.8 million during 2006, compared to grants equal to $900,000 during 2005. We expect research and development expenses to continue to increase as we enter into a more advanced stage of clinical trials for our product candidates, especially with respect to the expected Phase III trial for prGCD. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $2.4 million, or approximately 114%, from $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase resulted primarily from a $1.5 million increase in share based compensation due to the application of SFAS 123R, resulting from additional stock option awards granted in 2006. Financial Expenses and Income Financial income was $344,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $301,000, compared to $43,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase resulted primarily from a higher balance of cash and cash equivalents during the later period, primarily the result of the proceeds generated from the sale of ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd. in September 2006, which resulted in higher interest income. 37 Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to year ended December 31, 2004 Revenues Revenues were $150,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $280,000, or 65%, from $430,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The revenues were generated in connection with our achievement of development milestones under the research and development program with a third party that was completed during fiscal year 2005. The decrease resulted primarily from our achievement of more significant development milestones under the program during 2004 compared to 2005. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses were $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, an increase of $2.2 million, or 88%, from $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase resulted primarily from an increase of $1.2 million in development expenses related to salaries and related consulting and materials associated with the development of prGCD. The increase was incurred in connection with the higher costs associated with the end of our preclinical trials and with the initiation of our Phase I clinical trial for prGCD during 2005. In addition, we incurred a $498,000 increase in share based compensation. The increase was partially offset by a $362,000 increase in grant funds we received from the OCS; we received grants equal to $935,000 during 2005 compared to grants equal to $573,000 during 2004. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, an increase of $1.3 million, or 175%, from $807,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The difference resulted primarily from a $1.1 million increase in share based compensation. Financial Expenses and Income Financial income was $43,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to an expense of $4,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase resulted primarily from the higher balance of cash and cash equivalents held during such periods and the incurrence of interest expense in connection with a $1.0 million loan. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity As a result of our significant research and development expenditures and the lack of any approved products to generate product sales revenue, we have not been profitable and have generated operating losses since our inception. To date, we have funded our operations primarily with proceeds equal to $31.3 million from the sale of convertible preferred and ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd., and an additional $8.9 million in connection with the exercise of warrants issued in connection with the sale of such ordinary shares, through December 31, 2006. We believe that the funds currently available to us as are sufficient to satisfy our capital needs for the next 18 months. The following table summarizes our past funding sources: Security Year Number of Shares Amount(1) Ordinary Shares 1996 2000 18,801,527 (2) $ 1,100,000 Series A Convertible Preferred Shares 2001 11,635,090 $ 2,000,000 Series B Convertible Preferred Shares(3) 2004 2005 7,225,357 $ 4,500,000 Series C Convertible Preferred Shares(4) 2005 5,513,422 $ 7,700,000 Ordinary Shares(5) 2006 10,637,686 $ 16,000,000 (1) Gross proceeds; does not include proceeds from warrant exercises. (2) Includes the issuance of ordinary shares to founders. 38 (3) During 2005, 1,035,569 Series B Preferred Shares were converted on a 1:1 basis into Series C Preferred Shares for no additional consideration. Also in connection with such funding, warrants to purchase 181,228 Series B Preferred Shares were issued for no additional consideration with a total exercise price of $100,000. As of the closing date of the merger, 168,034 of such warrants were exercised for net proceeds equal to approximately $96,000 and 13,194 of such warrants have been forfeited. (4) In connection with such funding, warrants to purchase an additional 8,862,803 Series C Preferred Shares were granted to the investors for no additional consideration with a total exercise price equal to $9.0 million. As of the closing date of the merger, 5,296,279 of such warrants were exercised for net proceeds equal to $8.7 million, 3,384,502 were assumed by our company and 182,022 expired. (5) In connection with such funding, warrants to purchase 3,875,416 ordinary shares were issued for no additional consideration with a total exercise price equal to $5.3 million. These warrants were exercised in January 2007. Cash Flows Net cash used in operations was $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The net loss for 2006 of $9.4 million was mainly offset by non cash charges for share based compensation of $3.4 million, an increase in accounts payable of $1.3 million and depreciation of $502,000. Net cash used in investing activities for 2006 was $1.0 million and consisted primarily of purchases of property and equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities for 2006 was $16.7 million, consisting mainly of net proceeds of $14.9 million from the sale of ordinary shares of Protalix Ltd. Net cash used in operations was $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The net loss for 2005 of $5.7 million was mainly offset by $1.9 million of non cash share based compensation, a decrease in accounts receivable of $400,000 and depreciation equal to $311,000. Net cash used in investing activities for 2005 was $903,000 and consisted primarily of $844,000 for purchases of property and equipment. Net cash provided from financing activities for 2005 was $7.4 million, which consisted primarily of net proceeds of $8.4 million from the sale of Series C Preferred Shares, which was partially offset by the repayment of a $1.0 million loan. Future Funding Requirements We expect to incur losses from operations for the foreseeable future. We expect to incur increasing research and development expenses, including expenses related to the hiring of personnel and additional clinical trials. We expect that general and administrative expenses will also increase as we expand our finance and administrative staff, add infrastructure, and incur additional costs related to being a public company in the United States, including the costs of directors and officers insurance, investor relations programs, and increased professional fees. In addition, we are considering a new manufacturing facility that would meet the FDA requirements for the manufacture of our product candidates, which would increase our capital expenditures significantly. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short term investments will be sufficient to enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least for the next 18 months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that are subject to change and may prove to be wrong, and we may be required to use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amounts of increased capital outlays and operating expenditures associated with our current and anticipated clinical trials. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the progress and results of our clinical trials, the duration and cost of discovery and preclinical development, and laboratory testing and clinical trials for our product candidates, the timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates, the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending, and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, the number and development requirements of other product candidates that we pursue, and the costs of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales, and distribution. We will need to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. We currently do not have any commitments for future external funding. We may need to raise additional funds more quickly if one or more of our assumptions prove to be incorrect or if we choose to expand our product development efforts more rapidly than we presently anticipate. We may also decide to raise additional funds even before we need them if the conditions for raising capital are favorable. The sale of additional equity or debt securities will likely result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also result in covenants that would restrict our operations. Additional equity or debt financing, grants, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not 39 available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our research and development programs, reduce our planned commercialization efforts or obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain product candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. Effects of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations Inflation generally affects us by increasing our cost of labor and clinical trial costs. We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our results of operations during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005, or 2006. Currency fluctuations could affect us by increased or decreased costs mainly for goods and services acquired outside of Israel. We do not believe currency fluctuations have had a material effect on our results of operations during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005, or 2006. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2005 and 2006. See Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements for a full description of certain contingent royalty payments. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for recognizing, measuring, presenting, and disclosing in the financial statements tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, including a decision whether to file or not to file in a particular jurisdiction. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006 (January 1, 2007 for us). If there are changes in net assets as a result of application of FIN 48, these will be accounted for as an adjustment to retained earnings. We believe that the application of Fin 48 will not have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS 157 are effective commencing upon the fiscal year beginning after September 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of SFAS 157 on our financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the SEC released SAB No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, which provides interpretive guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the purpose of a materiality assessment. We are required to initially apply SAB No. 108 during fiscal year 2007. The application of SFAS 108 did not have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations as of December 31, 2006. On February 15, 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159). Under this SFAS 159, we may elect to report financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on a contract by contract basis with changes in value reported in earnings. This election is irrevocable. SFAS 159 provides an opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings that is caused by measuring hedged assets and liabilities that were previously required to use a different accounting method than the related hedging contracts when the complex provisions of SFAS 133 hedge accounting are not met. SFAS 159 is effective for years beginning after November 15, 2007. Early adoption within 120 days of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year is permissible, provided a company has not yet issued interim financial statements for 2007 and has adopted SFAS 157. We do not intend to adopt SFAS 157 early, and we are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 159 on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. 40 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2006: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations $657 $237 $382 $38 Purchase obligations $1,979 $1,979 Other long term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet under GAAP $436 $436 Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) Three Months Ended on 2005 2006 March 31 June 30 Sept. 30 Dec. 31 March 31 June 30 Sept. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues $150 Cost of revenues 35 Gross profit 115 Net loss before change in accounting principle 957 1,092 1,767 1,930 1,596 1,868 2,499 3,464 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (37) Net loss for the period $957 $1,092 $1,767 $1,930 $1,559 $1,868 $2,499 $3,464 Net loss per share of common stock, basic and diluted prior to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $0.05 $0.06 $0.09 $0.10 $0.08 $0.10 $0.12 $0.06 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle Net Loss per share of common stock $0.05 $0.06 $0.09 $0.10 $0.08 $0.10 $0.12 $0.06 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Currency Exchange Risk The currency of the primary economic environment in which our operations are conducted is the dollar. We are currently in the development stage with no significant source of revenues; therefore we consider the currency of the primary economic environment to be the currency in which we expend cash. Most of our expenses and capital expenditures are incurred in dollars, and a significant source of our financing has been provided in U.S. dollars. Since the dollar is the functional currency, monetary items maintained in currencies other than the dollar are remeasured using the rate of exchange in effect at the balance sheet dates and non monetary items are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expense items are remeasured at the average rate of exchange in effect during the period in which they occur. Foreign currency translation gains or losses are recognized in the statement of operations. Approximately 50% of our costs, including salaries, expenses and office expenses, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, the NIS. Inflation in Israel may have the effect of increasing the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel. If the U.S. dollar declines in value in relation to the NIS, it will become more expensive for us to fund our operations in Israel. A revaluation of 1% of the NIS will affect our income before tax by less than 1%. The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the NIS, based 41 on exchange rates published by the Bank of Israel, was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 Average rate for period 4.4820 4.4878 4.4565 Rate at year end 4.3080 4.6030 4.2250 To date, we have not engaged in hedging transactions. In the future, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk is confined to our cash and cash equivalents. We consider all short term, highly liquid investments, which include short term deposits with original maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase, that are not restricted as to withdrawal or use and are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, to be cash equivalents. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while maximizing the interest income we receive from our investments, without increasing risk. We invest any cash balances primarily in bank deposits and investment grade interest bearing instruments. We are exposed to market risks resulting from changes in interest rates. We do not use derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to interest rate risk. Our interest gains may decline in the future as a result of changes in the financial markets. 
</SECTION>
