<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: SCHWEITZER MAUDUIT INTERNATIONAL INC
CIK: 0001000623
SIC: 2621
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070302
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation The following is a discussion of our results of operations and current financial condition. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report and the selected financial data included in Item 6. The discussion of our results of operations and financial condition includes various forward looking statements about our markets, the demand for our products and our future prospects. These statements are based on certain assumptions that we consider reasonable. For information about risks and exposures relating to us and our business, you should read the section entitled Factors That May Affect Future Results, in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10 K. The Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation is designed to provide a reader of our financial statements with an understanding of our recent performance, our financial condition and our prospects. The following will be discussed and analyzed: Operations Chief Executive Officers Summary Recent Developments Industry Trends Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Recent Accounting Pronouncements Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook Forward Looking Statements Operations We are a multinational diversified producer of premium specialty papers and the worlds largest supplier of fine papers to the tobacco industry. We are the premier manufacturer of high porosity papers, which are used in manufacturing ventilated cigarettes, and the leading independent producer of RTL used in producing blended cigarettes. We conduct business in over 90 countries and currently operate 11 production locations worldwide, with mills in the United States, France, the Philippines, Indonesia, Brazil and Canada. We manufacture and sell paper and reconstituted tobacco products to the tobacco industry as well as specialized paper products for use in other applications. Tobacco industry products, which comprised approximately 90 percent of our net sales for each of the years 2004 through 2006, include Cigarette Papers; RTL for use as filler in cigarettes; reconstituted tobacco wrappers and binders for cigars; and paper products used in cigarette packaging. Commercial and industrial products include lightweight printing and writing papers, coated papers for packaging and labeling applications, business forms, battery separator paper, drinking straw wrap, filter papers and other specialized papers primarily for the North American, western European and Brazilian markets. We maintain an Internet Web site address at www.schweitzer mauduit.com. The Web site provides additional background information including further information on our history, products and locations. 26 Chief Executive Officers Summary 2006 Financial Results Our net sales totaled $655.2 million, a 2.2 percent reduction compared to 2005. The decline was related to changes in sales volumes which decreased net sales by $34.2 million, primarily due to lower sales volumes in France. Compared to 2005, total sales volumes decreased by 4.8 percent. Sales volumes decreased by 6.6 percent for the French businesses and declined by 9.9 percent in the U.S. business unit, reflecting primarily the dcor papers exit and a reduction in fill business. Brazilian business unit sales volumes increased by 8.9 percent due to increased commercial and industrial as well as tobacco related paper sales, in part reflecting our strategy to shift production of certain grades from the United States to Brazil. Operating profit was $5.3 million, a $34.0 million decrease from 2005. Excluding $21.1 million in restructuring charges, operating profit declined by $12.9 million, or 32.8 percent. Reductions in mill operating schedules due to decreased production volumes, as a result of lower sales volumes and downtime taken to reduce finished product inventories carried over from 2005, caused lower absorption of mill fixed costs and negatively impacted operating profit by $18.3 million. Inflationary cost increases decreased profitability by $18.1 million primarily due to higher energy and wood pulp expenses. The 2006 income tax benefit of $4.2 million resulted from reduced income impacted by restructuring expenses, changes in the geographic mix of taxable earnings of our businesses and the favorable tax impact of our foreign holding company structure. Minority interest decreased by $1.7 million because of reduced profitability at LTRI. The net loss was $0.8 million compared to net income of $19.4 million in 2005. Diluted loss per share was $0.05 compared to diluted earnings per share of $1.26 in 2005. Following our disappointing financial results in 2006, we expect to make progress during 2007 in mitigating the continuing impact of inflationary cost increases and reduced production schedules that have decreased our earnings over the last 2 years. We intend to do this through improved worldwide mill operations, the benefits in France and the United States from previously announced restructuring activities and the continued growth and cost improvement in producing cigarette paper for LIP cigarettes as well as RTL products. Strategic Initiatives We are now implementing a plan to become a low cost and the highest quality cigarette and long fiber paper manufacturer in western Europe. This plan includes: A workforce and papermaking restructuring at our largest French paper operation, Papeteries de Mauduit (PdM), to lower operating costs. The unions, Works Council and management concluded negotiations, reaching agreement on terms and conditions of a workforce reduction of 209 employees and the shutdown of 2 cigarette paper machines during 2007. Capital investments of $23 million in state of the art automated equipment and removal of higher cost production equipment. Specifically, we are rebuilding 1 of 2 large cigarette paper machines and installing robotized, high speed converting units at PdM. The capital investments will be completed in the fourth quarter of 2007, and the workforce reduction is expected to be accomplished in 2 phases in 2007 and 2008. Also announced during the year was a decision to cease production and sale of dcor papers made at our mill in Lee, Massachusetts. With this decision the operation of 1 paper machine was terminated and a plan 27 was developed to restructure the operation of the mill, including the implementation of a team based work system. In 2006, restructuring expenses in France related to negotiated future cash severance payments and accelerated depreciation of fixed assets totaled $15.8 million. Restructuring expenses in the United States totaled $5.3 million, primarily related to accelerated depreciation of fixed assets and employee severance costs. 2007 Opportunities and Challenges A number of current projects were undertaken to reduce costs or increase sales and earnings: We are confident in our strategies for restructuring our French and U.S. operations to better balance capacity with available demand and reduce costs. We are expecting modest improved earnings from the restructuring activities in 2007 and substantial improvements in 2008 and beyond. Sales growth is planned for cigarette paper used in the production of LIP cigarettes. In 2006, LIP cigarettes accounted for about 13 percent of cigarettes sold in North America. By mid year 2008, cigarette paper sales for LIP cigarettes are expected to grow to approximately 23 percent of North American cigarette paper sales volume. Sales growth is planned in reconstituted tobacco products, with increased volume in RTL during 2007 and 2008 and an improved operating schedule in 2007 versus 2006. Additional specific cost reduction activities are planned across all business units. The benefits are expected to further offset the continuing unfavorable impacts of lower production volumes and inflationary cost increases that were experienced during 2005 and 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we will start up a rebuilt paper machine in Brazil that will manufacture world class quality and low cost base tipping paper. This project is expected to contribute to increased sales and earnings in 2008. The construction of our joint venture with the China State Tobacco Monopoly Administration, a 2 machine mill in Jiangmen, China to manufacture cigarette paper and long fiber tobacco papers, is on schedule to start up in the first half of 2008. Several initiatives are being pursued to expand our manufacturing presence in Asia. Discussions are progressing toward an agreement to form a joint venture in China to manufacture RTL for cigarettes. Recent Developments Philip Morris Supply Agreement On December 20, 2006, we provided a notice of non renewal of the SSA with Philip Morris USA, and while we intend to negotiate a new supply arrangement with Philip Morris USA, the outcome of any such discussions is not presently known. Additional information regarding the SSA with Philip Morris USA is included in Markets and Customers in Part I, Item 1 and in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operational Changes France and United States We initiated restructuring activities during 2006 which are expected to improve our competitiveness and profitability as well as address an imbalance between sales demand for our products and our paper production capacity in France and the United States. 28 The following table summarizes the associated cash and non cash pretax restructuring expense totaling $21.1 million for 2006 (dollars in millions): France U.S. Total Cash Expense Severance and other employee related costs $ 13.9 $ 0.5 $ 14.4 Other 0.9 0.1 1.0 Total cash expense 14.8 0.6 15.4 Non cash Expense Accelerated depreciation 1.0 4.2 5.2 Other 0.5 0.5 Total non cash expense 1.0 4.7 5.7 Total Restructuring Expense $ 15.8 $ 5.3 $ 21.1 At the Lee Mills facility in Massachusetts, restructuring activities were initiated in 2006 that have become part of an overall effort to sustain profitable operations at this location. Actions at the Lee Mills were prompted in part by a notification from Kimberly Clark Corporation to terminate an agreement for the operation of a paper machine at this site. While the current term of the contract was scheduled to expire in December 2009, Kimberly Clark gave notice of early termination on January 27, 2006, which under the contract began an 18 month termination period for the contract. This termination notice was modified in October 2006 and extended the termination period to not earlier than December 31, 2007. While certain of the costs associated with operation of this machine that are currently invoiced to Kimberly Clark can be eliminated, we may be unable to eliminate a portion of the approximately $2 million of annual indirect and fixed overhead costs that are currently absorbed by that operation when the Kimberly Clark contract expires. As a result of the Kimberly Clark notice, as well as changes in tobacco related paper customer sales volume forecasts and lack of profitability for certain commercial and industrial paper grades produced at the Lee Mills, we decided in February 2006 to transfer production volume from 1 porous plug wrap paper machine to another under utilized Lee Mills porous plug wrap paper machine and to commence accelerated depreciation on the affected equipment. Additionally, the salaried and hourly Lee Mills workforces were reorganized to be more efficient and cost effective, which resulted in the loss of approximately 25 jobs. Additionally, during May 2006, we announced a decision to cease the production and sale of dcor papers made at the Lee Mills. As a result of this decision, we ceased operation of a paper machine in July, which resulted in accelerated depreciation and other restructuring expense. This cessation resulted in the loss of approximately 15 jobs in total at the Lee Mills and at our U.S. headquarters in Alpharetta, Georgia. As a result of these decisions, we recorded $5.3 million of restructuring expense in the United States in 2006. In France, a decrease in the consumption of cigarettes, primarily caused by increased consumer taxes and regulations on the cigarette industry, impacted the demand for some of our tobacco related products in western Europe and elsewhere. Also, new tobacco related papers manufacturing capacity was added in 2003 and 2004 by competitors in Europe that increased competition in a period of reduced demand. The reduced demand for our products has caused us to have continuing excess capacity and increased machine downtime in France. On September 19, 2006, we announced plans to invest approximately $23 million to improve the cost and quality competitiveness in our paper operations at PdM, as well as initiation of negotiations with the unions and the Works Council to consider restructuring operations at that facility, including employee layoffs and the shutdown of production equipment. On October 18, 2006, the first meeting among PdM management, unions and the Works Council occurred. At this meeting, further detail information was provided regarding the costs, timing and benefits of the strategy to become a low cost and the highest quality cigarette and long fiber paper manufacturer in western Europe. The elements of this strategy at 29 PdM include i) improvement of cigarette paper manufacturing by investing in more automated capabilities while removing older, higher cost production equipment; ii) reduction in general mill operating costs; iii) development of an improved commercial policy intended to grow market share; iv) renewed efforts to further develop the long fiber paper business using PdMs existing papermaking capacity; and v) the restructuring of work practices to enhance the productivity and organizational effectiveness of PdMs human resources. On December 19, 2006, the unions, Works Council and management of PdM concluded negotiations and successfully reached an agreement regarding the terms and conditions of the workforce reductions associated with the planned restructuring at the site in Quimperl, France. The terms of the severance agreement and other related costs are expected to result in cash expenditures of approximately $23 to $25 million through 2008. The actual amount of severance expenses will be dependent upon the final number of individuals within each of the 3 possible categories for employee severance that include early retirement, other voluntary means and involuntary layoffs. In the final agreement, workforce levels will be reduced by 209 employees in 2 essentially equal phases during each of 2007 and 2008. The first phase is associated with reduced machine operating schedules and other organizational changes. The second phase reflects expected employment reductions following capital investments. The PdM restructuring plan is expected to result in the shutdown of 2 cigarette paper machines during 2007. Overall PdM restructuring expenses are now projected to be in the range of $26 to $28 million for 2006 through 2008, including the above cash costs and approximately $3 million for non cash accelerated depreciation of fixed assets. We recognized $15.8 million in restructuring expense in France during 2006. The remainder of the total projected restructuring expenses will be recognized during 2007 and 2008. Financing of the approximately $46 to $48 million total cash capital investment and severance and related expenses is expected to be fully funded through internally generated funds and our existing bank credit facility. Severance cash payments are expected to total approximately $12 million during 2007. No severance payments were made in 2006. A PdM severance liability of $10.1 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2006 for the minimum severance liability mandated by French law in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 15. We expect to recognize an additional severance obligation above the French minimum of $10.1 million as a result of the union agreement reached on December 19, 2006. In accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, $3.5 million of amortization for this additional severance obligation was recorded in the fourth quarter. The additional severance obligation will continue to be accrued and amortized to restructuring expense ratably over the affected employees remaining service periods. The remainder of this additional severance obligation will be recorded during 2007 and 2008. The amount of these severance obligations could change depending on the mix of employees that leave through early retirement or other voluntary terminations versus involuntary separation. We continue to evaluate how to operate our worldwide production facilities more effectively. Analyses are ongoing and we have not committed to any actions beyond those identified above. However, additional restructuring actions may be taken based on the outcome of these analyses which could increase the amounts of restructuring expense already expected to be recorded in 2007 and 2008. Lower Ignition Propensity Cigarettes Certain governmental entities, particularly in North America, have considered or proposed actions that would require cigarettes to meet specifications aimed at reducing their likelihood of igniting fires when the cigarettes are not actively being smoked. To date, 6 U.S. states and Canada have passed such regulations. Additional information regarding lower ignition legislation is included in Tobacco Products and Government Actions in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. 30 China Joint Venture In July 2005, we announced execution of an agreement to form a joint venture to produce tobacco related papers in China. Project spending, including capital expenditures and working capital requirements, is expected to total approximately $100 million. PdM is providing technical support and project management. The project is advancing smoothly and on schedule, with mill operations currently expected to commence as planned in the first half of 2008. We made our initial equity injections in the joint venture of $2.9 million during 2006, and we expect to make additional equity investments of approximately $12 million and $2 million in 2007 and 2008, respectively. Additional information regarding the China joint venture is included in Part I, Item 2, Properties. New Bank Credit Agreement We entered into a new bank Credit Agreement effective July 31, 2006 which provides for (a) additional borrowing capacity of approximately $60 million, increasing the total facilities to approximately $195 million from approximately $135 million, (b) a reduced number of tranches from 4 to 2, (c) extended terms, with the maturity date of the new facilities being no earlier than 5 years, (d) lower interest rate margins and (e) fewer, less restrictive financial covenant requirements. The increased amount of the facility and its favorable terms provide greater flexibility to pursue various strategic opportunities. Industry Trends Consistent with recent historical trends, worldwide cigarette consumption is expected to increase at a rate of approximately 1/2 to 1 percent per year. The anticipated decline in the production of cigarettes in developed countries is expected to be more than offset by increased cigarette production in developing countries that currently represent approximately 70 percent of worldwide cigarette production. Population demographics and expected increases in disposable income will support the increased consumption of cigarettes in developing countries. In addition, the litigation environment is different in most foreign countries compared with the United States, having less of an impact on the pricing of cigarettes, which, in turn, affects cigarette consumption. Cigarette production in the United States is expected to continue to decline as a result of reduced cigarette exports and a decline in domestic cigarette consumption caused by increased cigarette prices, health concerns and public perceptions, including restrictions on where smoking is allowed. As well, cigarette consumption has been declining in western Europe following recent tax increases on cigarette sales and smoking restrictions. The cigarette paper market in western Europe has become more competitive, with pressure on both sales volumes and selling prices, caused by reduced cigarette consumption in several large European markets and new cigarette paper manufacturing capacity that was added in western Europe in mid 2004. In developing countries, there is a trend toward consumption of more sophisticated cigarettes, which utilize higher quality tobacco related papers, such as those we produce, and RTL. This trend toward more sophisticated cigarettes reflects increased governmental regulations concerning tar delivery levels and increased competition from multinational cigarette manufacturers. Based on these trends, we expect worldwide demand for tobacco related papers and RTL products to continue to increase, with a shift from developed countries to developing countries. As a result, we are increasing some of our production capacity in developing countries such as Brazil, the Philippines and Indonesia, and we have entered into a joint venture in China. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our accompanying financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require management to make estimates that affect the amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities reported and disclosure of contingencies. 31 Following are 4 critical accounting matters, which are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and required managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. We discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the estimates and judgments made for each of these items and our accounting for and presentation of these items in the accompanying financial statements. The accounting for these matters was based on current facts and circumstances which, in our judgment, hold potential for change which could affect our future estimates such that future financial results could differ materially from financial results based on managements current estimates. Our critical accounting policies and estimates arise in conjunction with the following: income tax expense and accruals pension benefits expense and accruals litigation contingencies property, plant and equipment valuation Accounting for Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for both the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and for deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We must make assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against a deferred tax asset. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income taxes take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above could cause our actual income tax obligations to differ from our estimates, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. We record and maintain income tax valuation allowances as necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount which is estimated more likely than not to be realizable in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. We have available net operating loss carryforwards, excess foreign tax credit carryforwards, alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards and other various tax credits in the jurisdictions in which we operate, for which we have recorded deferred tax assets totaling $43.1 million as of December 31, 2006. Certain of these potential future benefits are not expected to be utilized in a manner beneficial to our financial results prior to their expiration. As a result, as of December 31, 2006, we have $5.8 million of valuation allowances against certain of the deferred tax assets, as follows (dollars in millions): Total Valuation Net Asset Allowance Asset Net operating loss carryforwards $ 34.5 $ (3.0 ) $ 31.5 Foreign tax credit carryforwards 3.0 (1.4 ) 1.6 Federal research and U.S. states tax credit carryforwards 2.7 (1.4 ) 1.3 Federal AMT credit carryforwards 2.9 2.9 $ 43.1 $ (5.8 ) $ 37.3 32 Under current tax laws governing jurisdictions in which we have net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, remaining NOLs in France and Brazil carry forward indefinitely, NOLs in the Philippines expire 3 years subsequent to the year generated and NOLs in Spain expire 10 years subsequent to the year generated. We expect sufficient future taxable income in France and Brazil to fully utilize the respective French and Brazilian NOLs, which carry forward indefinitely and for which no valuation allowances have been recorded as of December 31, 2006. We also expect sufficient future taxable income in the Philippines to fully utilize the Philippine NOLs, which carry forward for 3 years and for which no valuation allowances have been recorded as of December 31, 2006. The remaining NOLs at December 31, 2006 in Spain will fully expire in 2016 if not utilized against taxable income in Spain. Valuation allowances related to NOLs in Spain totaled $3.0 million as of December 31, 2006, fully reserving the related deferred tax asset in Spain, since we believe that it is reasonably likely that we will not generate taxable income in Spain prior to the expiration of these NOLs, as SM Spain only functions as the primary foreign investment holding company for us. We receive credits in our U.S. federal income tax return for income taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions. Income from foreign sources, including dividend income paid from foreign subsidiaries, is included in taxable income of the U.S. parent. In some cases, the amount of credits realized in the tax return is more or less than the tax owed on the foreign source income. When the amount of credits exceeds the amount of taxes owed on that foreign source income, foreign tax credit carryforwards are generated. When the credits are less than the tax owed, unexpired credit carryforwards from prior years can be utilized in certain circumstances. These circumstances are dependent upon both foreign source and domestic taxable income. Due to the recent low level of the U.S. business units profitability, we have implemented certain income tax elections to accelerate taxable income or to delay deductions in order to maintain positive domestic taxable income or to minimize a domestic taxable loss (e.g., our election to capitalize research costs in the year incurred for U.S. income tax purposes and amortize over a 10 year life, as opposed to taking the income tax deduction in the year incurred). However, many such actions cannot be repeated in future years and certain of those elections may make it more difficult to have positive domestic taxable income in future periods. The profitability of our U.S. business operations must continue to improve to provide us an opportunity to utilize foreign tax credit carryforwards in the future in a manner that will be beneficial to our financial results. However, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 increased the carryforward period of foreign tax credits from 5 to 10 years. Based on this extension of the carryforward period, together with the current and forecasted profitability of our U.S. business operations and the requirements of the foreign source income and credit calculations, we currently believe that we will partially utilize the foreign tax credit carryforwards in an earnings beneficial manner prior to their expiration and, therefore, we have partially reserved these deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2006 with $1.4 million of valuation allowances, reducing the net deferred tax asset to an amount that we estimate we will be able to realize. We regularly update our estimates of domestic taxable income in order to evaluate whether the facts and circumstances have changed such that we must change our valuation allowances on these deferred tax assets. Likewise, our carryforwards of federal research credits and U.S. state tax credits require applicable taxable income in the respective tax returns in order to be utilized prior to their expirations. We expect that we will be able to fully utilize our federal research credits, which have a 20 year carryforward period, prior to their expiration. However, we do not currently expect sufficient future taxable income in our U.S. state income tax returns to be able to utilize all of our state tax credits prior to their expiration, primarily in New York and New Jersey, where the carryforward periods are 15 and 7 years, respectively, and credit utilization is limited to 50 percent of the income tax liability. As a result, we have $1.4 million of valuation allowances reducing our deferred tax assets to amounts that we estimate we will be able to realize. We regularly update these estimates in order to evaluate whether the facts and circumstances have changed such that we must change our valuation allowances on these deferred tax assets. 33 Under current U.S. tax law, federal alternative minimum tax, or AMT, credit carryforwards have no expiration. We believe that profitability will improve in our U.S. operations in future years. Since the federal AMT credit carryforwards have no expiration, we believe it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the full benefit of these credits in future years, and thus we do not believe any valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets is appropriate as of December 31, 2006. In summary, of our valuation allowances at December 31, 2006, $3.0 million relates to NOLs in Spain, $1.4 million relates to foreign tax credit carryforwards for purposes of U.S. federal income taxes and $1.4 million relates to U.S. state credits. We do not expect to generate taxable income in Spain prior to expiration of NOLs in that jurisdiction. The $1.4 million related to foreign tax credits and the $1.4 million related to state tax credits are dependent upon taxable income in the United States. We do anticipate increased profitability in the United States in the future, but not in sufficient enough amounts to fully realize these deferred tax assets in a beneficial manner prior to the expiration of the underlying credits. It is possible that our estimates of future profitability in the United States could change from our current estimates based on business results or actions taken by us which effect taxable income. While we do not currently believe it is likely that a material change will occur, it is possible that changes in these factors, changes in the level of foreign source income or a change in the likelihood of foreign tax credit utilization in an earnings beneficial manner, could result in an adjustment of our valuation allowances in future periods. Due to the number of uncertain factors and the complexities of the calculations, it is not possible to reasonably estimate what future impact could occur. While we believe it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $37.3 million of estimated net deferred income tax benefits, it is possible that the facts and circumstances on which our estimates and judgments are based could change, which could result in additional income tax expense in the future to increase the associated valuation allowances. However, we continue to evaluate possible methods to favorably utilize those assets that are reserved and, therefore, it is also possible that changes in the facts and circumstances on which our estimates and judgments are based could benefit us in the future by some of the $5.8 million of deferred tax assets reserved as of December 31, 2006. For additional information regarding income taxes and valuation allowances, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension Accounting We recognize the estimated compensation cost of employees pension benefits over their approximate period of service to us in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. Our earnings are impacted by amounts of expense recorded related to pension benefits, which primarily consist of U.S. and French pension benefits. Each years recorded expense is an estimate based on actuarial calculations of our accumulated and projected benefit obligations for our various plans. The calculations of pension benefit obligations and expenses require decisions about a number of key assumptions that can significantly affect liability and expense amounts, including the discount rate used to calculate plan liabilities, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the projected rate of future compensation increases. We evaluate these assumptions at least once each year, or as facts and circumstances dictate, and make changes as conditions warrant. We determine these actuarial assumptions, after consultation with our actuaries, on December 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. Changes to these assumptions will increase or decrease our reported income, which will result in changes to the recorded benefit plan assets and liabilities. We believe that our selections for these key actuarial assumptions are reasonable estimates for our plans and experience. 34 In July 2005, the decision was made and communicated to all affected U.S. salaried employees that benefits related to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States would be frozen as of December 31, 2005. This action was expected to reduce our annual pension expense and pension fund contribution requirements. The plan was not terminated and benefits accrued as of December 31, 2005 will continue to be paid in accordance with the plan terms. Allowable employee contributions and the employer matching percentage for the defined contribution, or 401(k), plan were modified to partially offset the resulting employee pension benefit reduction. The 2005 action included suspending the defined benefit pension plan so U.S. salaried employees do not earn additional benefits for future service (years or earnings) beginning January 1, 2006. This suspension of additional benefits for future service qualified this action for curtailment under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits.. This action necessitated a remeasurement of our accumulated benefit obligation under our U.S. pension plan and resulted in a curtailment gain in the third quarter of 2005 of $0.8 million ($0.5 million after tax). As part of the remeasurement, we decreased the discount rate assumption from 5.75 percent to 5.25 percent to reflect changes in market interest rates. Turnover and retirement assumptions were modified to reflect a demographic assumption study. Additionally, the mortality table assumption was also reviewed and updated to a more current mortality table. Annual rate of return and wage rate increase assumptions remained consistent with those previously disclosed. In May 2006, we implemented the terms of our last and final offer following an impasse in negotiations with the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union on a collective bargaining agreement for the Lee Mills that had been extended since its original expiration date of July 31, 2005. Pursuant to the terms of the offer that we unilaterally implemented, all affected hourly employees at the Lee Mills were notified that the further accrual of benefits under their defined benefit pension plan would be frozen as of July 17, 2006. This termination of the accrual of additional benefits for future service qualified this action for curtailment under SFAS No. 88. Consequently, hourly employees at the Lee Mills do not earn any additional benefits for future service (years or earnings) under the defined benefit plan beginning July 17, 2006. This action is expected to reduce our future annual pension expense and pension fund contribution requirements. The plan was not terminated, and benefits accrued as of July 17, 2006 will continue to be paid in accordance with the plan terms. Allowable employee contributions and the employer matching percentage for the defined contribution, or 401(k), plan for the Lee Mills hourly employees were modified to partially offset the resulting employee pension benefit reduction. The Lee Mills action necessitated a remeasurement of our accumulated benefit obligation under the U.S. pension plan and resulted in a curtailment gain of $0.1 million during the second quarter of 2006. As part of this remeasurement, we increased the discount rate assumption from 5.75 percent to 6.50 percent to reflect changes in market interest rates. Other actuarial assumptions (primarily asset returns, wage rate increases, plan population, retirement assumptions, mortality table and cash balance crediting rate) remained consistent with those previously disclosed. In accordance with SFAS No. 88, we calculated our curtailment gains by first remeasuring our plan assets and projected benefit obligation, or PBO, as of the date of each of the curtailments, excluding the effects of the curtailments, but including the effects of the changes in assumptions. We then remeasured the plan assets and PBO using the effects of the curtailment. This enabled the effects of the curtailments on the respective PBO to be isolated, without affecting the measurement for any change in the actuarial assumptions since the prior measurement date. Our U.S. employee pension plans accounted for approximately 80 percent of our total pension plan assets and total accumulated benefit obligations, as of December 31, 2006. 35 The table below shows the assumptions that we used and will use to calculate U.S. pension expense for the years shown: 2007 2006 2005 2004 Discount rate 6.00 % 6.50 %(1) 5.25 %(2) 6.00 % Expected long term rate of return on plan assets 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 Rate of compensation increase 3.50 % 3.50 % 3.50 % 3.50 % (1) For the period of June 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006, the discount rate was increased to 6.50 percent from 5.75 percent. (2) For the period of July 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005, the discount rate was decreased to 5.25 percent from 5.75 percent. The discount rates used for our determination of projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations for our U.S. employee pension plans fluctuate from year to year based on current market interest rates for high quality fixed income investments. We also evaluate the expected average duration of our pension obligations in determining our discount rate. The discount rate assumption is determined based on the internal rate of return for a portfolio of high quality bonds with maturities that are consistent with projected future plan cash flows. A change in the discount rate assumption of 0.25 percent would change our estimated 2007 U.S. pension expense by approximately $0.3 million. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is determined by evaluating historical and projected returns for benchmark equity and fixed income market indices as well as the projected investment mix of our pension assets. Actual rates of return (loss) earned on U.S. pension plan assets, net of expense, for each of the last 9 years, the period of time we have managed our pension assets were: Year Return 2006 10.4 % 2005 6.4 % 2004 11.7 % 2003 18.3 % 2002 (8.0 )% 2001 (4.9 )% 2000 (1.9 )% 1999 14.4 % 1998 20.4 % We utilized a Monte Carlo simulation analysis on the target U.S. pension asset investment mix to determine our expected return on plan assets for 2005, 2006 and 2007. For 2007, we will maintain the expected rate of return on plan assets at 9.0 percent, the same as for 2006. The current asset allocation policy of our U.S. employee pension plan targets an allocation of 60 percent in equity securities, 20 percent in fixed income securities and 20 percent in other investments. A change in the long term rate of return on plan assets assumption of 0.25 percent would change the estimated 2007 U.S. pension expense by approximately $0.2 million. The rate of annual compensation increase is directly related to negotiated union contracts for our U.S. hourly employees. U.S. salaried employees and Lee Mills hourly employees do not earn additional benefits for future service beginning January 1, 2006 and July 17, 2006, respectively. Despite our belief that the estimates are reasonable for these key actuarial assumptions, future actual results will likely differ from our estimates, and these differences could materially affect the future 36 financial statements either favorably or unfavorably. Additionally, it is possible that assets of our plans could decline as a result of negative investment returns, which combined with increasing amounts of accumulated benefit obligations, could result in us being required to make significant cash contributions to the plans in future periods. As of December 31, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R, which required us to recognize the unfunded status of our postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the PBO and plan assets at fair value, in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. For additional information regarding pension plan assets, benefit obligations and accounting assumptions, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Litigation Contingencies We evaluate contingencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. Accordingly, when a material loss contingency exists, we accrue an estimated loss when the likelihood that the future event or events will confirm the loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. If no accrual is made for a material loss contingency because both of the above conditions are not met, or if an exposure to loss exists materially in excess of an accrual that is made, disclosure regarding the contingency is made when there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred. Gains that might result from resolution of contingencies are not recorded until all contingencies have been resolved, although disclosure is generally made regarding material gain contingencies. Imposto sobre Circulao de Mercadorias e Servios, or ICMS, a form of value added tax in Brazil, was assessed to SWM B in December of 2000 by the tax authorities of the State of Rio de Janeiro for unpaid ICMS taxes from January 1995 through November 2000. The Assessment concerned the accrual and use by SWM B of ICMS tax credits generated from the production and sale of certain non tobacco related grades of paper sold domestically that are immune from the tax to offset ICMS taxes otherwise owed on the sale of products that are not immune. SWM B has contested the Assessment based on Article 150, VI of the Brazilian Federal Constitution of 1988, which grants immunity from ICMS taxes to papers used in the production of books, newspapers and periodicals, or immune papers, and the raw material inputs used to produce immune papers. Presently the Assessment is on appeal before the Superior Tribunal of Justice of Brazil. SWM B continues to vigorously contest the Assessment and believes that the Assessment will ultimately be resolved in its favor. However, since the final resolution involves presentation of the matter to the Supreme Court of Brazil, it is not likely to be finally resolved for several years. Based on the foreign currency exchange rate at December 31, 2006, the Assessment totaled approximately $19.7 million as of December 31, 2006, of which approximately $9.2 million is covered by an indemnification. No liability has been recorded in our consolidated financial statements for the Assessment based on our evaluation that SWM B is more likely than not to prevail in its challenge of the Assessment under the facts and law as presently understood. Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados, or IPI, a form of federal value added tax in Brazil. SWM B instituted action in March 2004 to recover credits on past and future purchases of raw materials that are exempt from IPI taxes or that carry an IPI tax rate of zero. The recovery would be in the form of presumed credits that could be applied to offset other IPI tax liabilities. The action for recovery is based on the principle in Brazilian law of non cumulative taxes. We received a favorable ruling on most of the merits of our claim. The case is presently on appeal before the Federal Tribunal. The potential recovery of IPI 37 credits, depending upon several contested factors, could be in the range of $10 million to $20 million, which amounts we consider a gain contingency and have not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. The final resolution of this matter may entail judicial proceedings up to and including presentation of the matter to the Supreme Court of Brazil and is not likely to be finally resolved for several years. For further information please see Litigation in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Property, Plant and Equipment Valuation Paper manufacturing, which is our primary manufacturing process, is a capital intensive process. As a result, we make substantial investments in property, plant and equipment which are recorded at cost. Net property, plant and equipment comprised 60 percent of our total assets as of December 31, 2006. The cost of depreciable property, plant and equipment is depreciated on the straight line method for financial reporting purposes over the depreciable lives of the assets. Depreciable lives are based on estimates of the useful lives of the assets, that is the period over which we expect to benefit from the use of the asset. Paper machines and related equipment are not readily obsoleted and are generally depreciated over estimated useful lives of 20 years. We periodically assess the likelihood of recovering the cost of long lived assets based on our expectation of future profitability and undiscounted cash flow of the related operations. These factors, along with managements plans with respect to the operations, are considered in assessing the recoverability of property, plant and equipment. Facts and circumstances upon which managements estimates and plans are based could change, thus the possibility exists of a material adjustment to our financial statements in the future. As a result of excess capacity in the tobacco related papers industry and increased operating costs experienced in the last 2 to 3 years, particularly related to purchased energy, competitive levels of selling prices for certain of our products are not sufficient to cover those costs with a margin that we consider reasonable. Such competitive pressures have resulted in downtime of certain paper machines and, in some cases, accelerated depreciation of certain equipment. We initiated restructuring activities during 2006 which are expected to improve our competitiveness and profitability as well as an imbalance between sales demand and paper production capacity in the United States and France. At the Lee Mills facility, we initiated restructuring activities to reduce paper machine operations, which resulted in $4.2 million in accelerated depreciation in 2006. We also began restructuring activities at our PdM mill in Quimperl, France. We plan to incur capital expenditures of approximately $23 million to improve the cost competitiveness in our paper operations and quality of our products manufactured at PdM, along with the shutdown of certain older equipment resulting in 2006 accelerated depreciation of $1.0 million. Management continues to evaluate how to operate our production facilities more effectively with reduced tobacco related papers volumes. Further restructuring actions are possible that might require write offs or accelerated depreciation of some equipment, particularly in France or the United States. In the United States, banded cigarette paper production assets at the Spotswood Mill are generally depreciated over estimated useful lives of 10 years. Certain of these assets remain underutilized and likely would otherwise be shut down except that we have a contractual commitment to stand ready to produce commercial quantities of that product for our customer. Partially offsetting the net book value of these assets is unamortized deferred revenue which is being amortized to revenue as product is being purchased by that customer. Further, certain of the infrastructure improvements and other assets installed to be able to produce commercial quantities of banded cigarette paper would still be used by a scaled down operation even if we stopped manufacture of that product. As of December 31, 2006, the net book value of Spotswood Mill property, plant and equipment was $79 million, of which $15 million related to 10 year life banded cigarette paper specific assets and $10 million related to 3 paper machines capable of producing 38 banded cigarette paper, but not currently in operation. As of December 31, 2006, unamortized deferred revenue was $30.1 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion regarding recent accounting pronouncements, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements included in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Net Sales $ 655.2 $ 669.8 $ 657.5 Cost of products sold 571.1 572.5 535.4 Gross Profit 84.1 97.3 122.1 Selling expense 22.7 24.4 27.1 Research expense 7.3 9.0 9.3 General expense 27.7 24.6 28.0 Total nonmanufacturing expenses 57.7 58.0 64.4 Restructuring expense 21.1 Operating Profit 5.3 39.3 57.7 Interest expense 5.5 6.2 3.7 Other income (expense), net (0.5 ) 2.5 1.5 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes, Minority Interest and Loss from Equity Affiliates (0.7 ) 35.6 55.5 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (4.2 ) 10.4 12.1 Minority interest in earnings of subsidiaries 4.1 5.8 7.0 Loss from equity affiliates 0.2 Net Income (Loss) $ (0.8 ) $ 19.4 $ 36.4 Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic $ (0.05 ) $ 1.28 $ 2.45 Diluted $ (0.05 ) $ 1.26 $ 2.36 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2005 Net Sales 2006 2005 Percent Change Consolidated Sales Volume Change (dollars in millions) France $ 385.0 $ 416.0 (7.5 )% (6.6 )% United States 221.8 215.2 3.1 (9.9 ) Brazil 67.3 60.2 11.8 8.9 Subtotal 674.1 691.4 Intersegment (18.9 ) (21.6 ) Total $ 655.2 $ 669.8 (2.2 )% (4.8 )% 39 We reported net sales of $655.2 million in 2006 compared with $669.8 million in 2005. The decrease of $14.6 million, or 2.2 percent, consisted of the following (dollars in millions): Amount Percent Changes in sales volumes (existing business) $ (38.4 ) (5.7 )% Changes in sales volumes (acquisition) 4.2 0.6 Changes in selling price and product mix 15.6 2.3 Changes in currency exchange rates 4.0 0.6 Total $ (14.6 ) (2.2 )% Unit sales volumes decreased by 4.8 percent compared with 2005, having the effect of a decrease on net sales of $34.2 million, or 5.1 percent, including sales of the acquired Philippine tobacco related paper manufacturing assets for the first half of 2006. Sales volumes in the United States decreased by 9.9 percent, primarily due to decreased commercial and industrial paper sales, reflecting the dcor papers exit and a reduction of fill in business, as well as lower tobacco related paper sales. Sales volumes of the French segment, including sales volumes of the Philippine business, decreased by 6.6 percent reflecting lower sales of both tobacco related paper and RTL products. Brazil experienced increased sales volumes of 8.9 percent due to increased commercial and industrial as well as tobacco related paper sales, in part reflecting our strategy to shift production of certain grades from the United States to Brazil. Higher average selling prices had a favorable $15.6 million, or 2.3 percent, impact on the net sales comparison, primarily resulting from an improved sales mix that benefited from increased sales of cigarette paper for LIP cigarettes. Changes in currency exchange rates favorably impacted the net sales comparison by $4.0 million. The euro was 3.8 percent stronger against the U.S. dollar, and the real was 11.0 percent stronger against the U.S. dollar. Sales of tobacco related products accounted for approximately 90 percent of net sales in both 2006 and 2005. French segment 2006 net sales of $385.0 million declined $31.0 million, or 7.5 percent, from $416.0 million in 2005. The decline was a result of the decline in RTL and tobacco related paper sales volumes, partially offset by higher average selling prices and favorable currency impacts. The U.S. segment net sales of $221.8 million represented an increase of $6.6 million, or 3.1 percent, compared with $215.2 million in 2005. The increase in net sales of the U.S. segment primarily resulted from an improved sales mix that included increased sales of cigarette paper for LIP cigarettes, partially offset by lower sales volumes for commercial and industrial paper sales. The commercial and industrial paper sales decline resulted from the dcor papers exit announced earlier in 2006 as well as a decrease of fill in business which followed consolidation of paper production on fewer machines. The Brazilian segment realized an increase in net sales of $7.1 million or 11.8 percent to $67.3 million from $60.2 million in 2005. The Brazilian segments net sales increase was primarily due to increased sales volumes of commercial and industrial papers as well as tobacco related papers and the stronger Brazilian real, partially offset by lower average selling prices. 40 Operating Expenses Percent Percent of Net Sales 2006 2005 Change Change 2006 2005 (dollars in millions) Net Sales $ 655.2 $ 669.8 $ (14.6 ) (2.2 )% Cost of products sold 571.1 572.5 (1.4 ) (0.2 ) 87.2 % 85.5 % Gross Profit $ 84.1 $ 97.3 $ (13.2 ) (13.6 )% 12.8 % 14.5 % Gross profit was $84.1 million in 2006, a decline of $13.2 million, or 13.6 percent, versus $97.3 million in 2005. The gross profit margin was 12.8 percent in 2006, declining from 14.5 percent in 2005. Gross profit was unfavorably impacted by unabsorbed fixed costs as a result of lower production volumes and inflationary cost increases. Reductions in mill operating schedules and decreased production volumes, primarily to control inventory levels in the United States and France, caused lower absorption of fixed mill costs and negatively impacted operating results by $18.3 million in 2006. Inflationary cost increases unfavorably impacted operating results by $18.1 million during 2006 due to higher purchased energy, wood pulp expenses and labor rates. The rate of year over year energy cost increases slowed during the fourth quarter of 2006, especially for electricity rates in the United States. During 2006, purchased energy costs increased by $11.1 million compared with 2005, with higher electricity, natural gas and fuel oil costs experienced in all business units. Changes in per ton wood pulp prices increased operating expenses by $4.1 million in 2006 compared with 2005. The average per ton list price of NBSK in the United States was $725 and $650 per metric ton during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Higher labor rates increased manufacturing expenses by $2.5 million during 2006. These unfavorable factors were partially offset by an improved mix of products sold, primarily in the United States due to higher sales of cigarette papers for LIP cigarettes, and improved mill operations. Operational improvements were achieved in each of our business units through increased productivity, reduced waste, energy related conservation and co generation projects and other cost reduction efforts. Nonmanufacturing Expenses Percent Percent of Net Sales 2006 2005 Change Change 2006 2005 (dollars in millions) Selling expense $ 22.7 $ 24.4 $ (1.7 ) (7.0 )% 3.5 % 3.6 % Research expense 7.3 9.0 (1.7 ) (18.9 ) 1.1 1.4 General expense 27.7 24.6 3.1 12.6 4.2 3.7 Nonmanufacturing expenses $ 57.7 $ 58.0 $ (0.3 ) (0.5 )% 8.8 % 8.7 % Nonmanufacturing expenses decreased by $0.3 million, or 0.5 percent, to $57.7 million from $58.0 million in 2005, with lower selling and research expenses largely offset by higher general expense. Nonmanufacturing expenses were 8.8 percent and 8.7 percent of net sales in 2006 and 2005. The reduction in research expense was primarily due to fewer new product mill trials in 2006. General expense was $3.1 million higher compared with 2005 primarily as a result of increased employee compensation costs and costs associated with the implementation of our joint venture in China. 41 Restructuring Expense We initiated restructuring activities during 2006 which are expected to improve our competitiveness and profitability as well as address an imbalance between sales demand for our products and our paper production capacity in France and the United States. Total restructuring expense of $21.1 million was recorded in 2006, including $5.7 million for accelerated depreciation and other non cash expenses and $15.4 million for severance and other cash costs. Operating Profit Percent Return on Net Sales 2006 2005 Change 2006 2005 (dollars in millions) France $ 8.1 $ 44.6 (81.8 )% 2.1 % 10.7 % United States 5.2 (0.7 ) N.M. 2.3 (0.3 ) Brazil (0.7 ) 0.6 N.M. (1.0 ) 1.0 Subtotal 12.6 44.5 (71.7 ) Unallocated expenses (7.3 ) (5.2 ) (40.4 ) Total $ 5.3 $ 39.3 (86.5 )% 0.8 % 5.9 % N.M. Not Meaningful Operating profit was $5.3 million in 2006, a decline of $34.0 million, or 86.5 percent, from $39.3 million in 2005. Operating profit as a percentage of net sales was 0.8 percent compared with 5.9 percent in 2005. Restructuring expense reduced operating profit by $21.1 million during 2006. Reductions in mill operating schedules in France and the United States, due to decreased production volumes, caused lower absorption of mill fixed costs and negatively impacted operating profit by $18.3 million. Inflationary cost increases decreased profitability by $18.1 million due to higher purchased energy and wood pulp expenses as well as increased labor rates. Lower sales volumes decreased operating profit by $3.7 million versus 2005. Partially offsetting these negative factors were better mill operations in all business units and higher average selling prices, particularly in the U.S. segment as a result of increased sales of cigarette papers for LIP cigarettes. The French segments operating profit was $8.1 million in 2006, a decline of $36.5 million, or 81.8 percent, from the $44.6 million realized in 2005. The decrease was primarily due to: Restructuring expense of $15.8 million. Unabsorbed fixed costs of $15.7 million as a result of lower production volumes. Inflationary cost increases of $11.8 million. These factors were partially offset by: Improved mill operations. Lower nonmanufacturing expenses, as a result of lower research and selling expenses. Positive effects of currency exchange rate changes related to the stronger euro versus the U.S. dollar. The U.S. segments operating profit was $5.2 million for 2006, a $5.9 million improvement from the prior year operating loss of $0.7 million. This improvement was primarily related to: Higher average selling prices, resulting primarily from an improved sales mix that included increased sales of cigarette papers for LIP cigarettes. 42 Significant improvement in mill operations, primarily from cost reduction activities combined with improved machine efficiencies. The absence of the impact of exiting the cigarette paper booklets business in the United States in 2005. These improvements were partially offset by: $5.3 million of restructuring expense, primarily in the form of accelerated depreciation. Inflationary cost increases of $4.7 million, including higher purchased energy, wood pulp and labor expenses. Unabsorbed fixed costs of $2.3 million as a result of lower production volumes. Brazils operating loss was $0.7 million during 2006, a decline of $1.3 million from an operating profit of $0.6 million in 2005. The decrease was related to: Unfavorable currency impacts of $3.2 million caused by the strengthening of the Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar. Inflationary cost increases of $1.6 million primarily related to increased wood pulp and purchased energy expenses. Lower average selling prices. These unfavorable items were partially offset by: Improved mill operations. Higher sales and production volumes. Non Operating Expenses Interest expense decreased to $5.5 million in 2006 from $6.2 million in 2005. The effect of lower average debt levels in 2006 was mostly offset by higher average interest rates. Total debt declined by $16.4 million during 2006. Total debt has been managed to a lower level in anticipation of future cash requirements. The weighted average effective interest rates on our 5 year revolving debt facilities were approximately 5.6 and 3.7 percent for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Other income (expense), net in both 2006 and 2005 included interest income and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other expense of $0.5 million in 2006 was unfavorable compared with other income of $2.5 million in 2005. This difference was primarily due to $1.3 million of foreign currency transaction losses in 2006 compared with foreign currency transaction gains of $1.0 million in 2005. In addition, 2005 benefited from a favorable business tax case settlement in Brazil and a gain on a sale of property in Indonesia. Income Taxes The 2006 income tax benefit of $4.2 million resulted from the reduced income impacted by restructuring expenses, changes in the geographic mix of taxable earnings of our businesses and the favorable tax impact of our foreign holding company structure. Minority Interest Minority interest declined to $4.1 million in 2006 from $5.8 million in 2005. This $1.7 million, or 29.3 percent, decrease reflected lower earnings of LTRI, a French subsidiary, which produces RTL products and has a 28 percent minority owner. 43 Loss from Equity Affiliates The loss from equity affiliates was $0.2 million during 2006 and represents our 50 percent share of the pre operating expenses associated with our recently formed joint venture in China. Net Income (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) Per Share Net loss for 2006 was $0.8 million, a decline of $20.2 million from net income of $19.4 million in 2005. Diluted net loss per share decreased to $0.05 from diluted net income per share of $1.26 in 2005. The decline in both net income and diluted net income per share was caused by the lower operating profit, including restructuring expense, and the change from other income to other expense, partially offset by the more favorable income tax benefit and lower minority interest. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Net Sales 2005 2004 Percent Change Sales Volume Change (dollars in millions) France $ 416.0 $ 427.0 (2.6 )% (2.4 )% United States 215.2 196.5 9.5 3.4 Brazil 60.2 50.2 19.9 11.6 Subtotal 691.4 673.7 Intersegment (21.6 ) (16.2 ) Total $ 669.8 $ 657.5 1.9 % 0.9 % We reported net sales of $669.8 million in 2005 compared with $657.5 million in 2004. The increase of $12.3 million, or 1.9 percent, consisted of the following (dollars in millions): Amount Percent Changes in currency exchange rates $ 7.4 1.1 % Changes in sales volumes (acquisition) 5.9 0.9 Changes in selling price and product mix 2.3 0.4 Changes in sales volumes (existing business) (3.3 ) (0.5 ) Total $ 12.3 1.9 % An increase of $7.4 million, or 1.1 percent, in net sales relating to changes in currency exchange rates. This was a direct result of a stronger Brazilian real and euro versus the U.S. dollar. The real was 21 percent stronger against the U.S. dollar, while the euro was on average 1 percent stronger versus the dollar. Acquisition of the Philippine operation in June 2005 contributed $5.9 million, or 0.9 percent. Higher average selling prices and improved product mix contributed $2.3 million. New products developed for the United States, including papers for LIP cigarettes, allowed for net sales growth due to product mix and pricing. A decrease of $3.3 million, or 0.5 percent, relating to changes in sales volumes. Sales volumes were flat, excluding sales of the acquired Philippine tobacco related paper manufacturing assets. Brazil experienced increased sales volumes of 11.6 percent, attributable largely to increased sales of both tobacco related and commercial and industrial papers. 44 Sales volumes in the United States increased by 3.4 percent, with improvement in most product categories. Sales volumes of the French segment, excluding the Philippines, decreased 4.4 percent, primarily as a result of lower tobacco related paper and RTL sales in France. Sales of tobacco related products accounted for approximately 90 percent of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The U.S. segment realized increased net sales of $18.7 million, or 9.5 percent, compared with 2004. Net sales of the U.S. segment increased as a result of increased volumes and higher average selling prices, due to a more favorable mix of products sold and a partial recovery of inflationary cost increases. The U.S. business continued to produce and sell cigarette paper for LIP cigarettes. A law that implemented fire safety standards for cigarettes sold in the State of New York took effect in June 2004 and a similar law became effective in Canada in October 2005. Brazil realized an increase in net sales of $10.0 million, or 19.9 percent, compared with 2004. The Brazilian segments sales increase was primarily due to increased sales volumes of tobacco related and commercial and industrial papers and favorable currency exchange rate impacts. French segment net sales declined $11.0 million, or 2.6 percent, from 2004 to 2005. The impact of the decrease in existing business sales volumes and lower average selling prices were partially offset by sales from the acquired Philippine tobacco related paper manufacturing assets and favorable currency exchange rate impacts. Operating Expenses Percent Percent of Net Sales 2005 2004 Change Change 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Net Sales $ 669.8 $ 657.5 $ 12.3 1.9 % Cost of products sold 572.5 535.4 37.1 6.9 85.5 % 81.4 % Gross Profit $ 97.3 $ 122.1 $ (24.8 ) (20.3 )% 14.5 % 18.6 % The decline in our gross profit margin was largely related to increased purchased energy, purchased materials, wood pulp, employee benefits and labor expenses, with minimal compensating increases in selling prices. Inflationary cost increases unfavorably impacted operating expenses by $24.9 million during the year. Purchased energy costs increased $12.3 million compared with full year 2004, with higher costs experienced in all business units. Inflationary increases for purchased materials other than wood pulp had an unfavorable impact of $7.5 million, driven largely by increased chemical costs. Higher labor rates increased manufacturing expenses by $3.1 million. The U.S. list price of NBSK, a bell weather pulp grade, increased from an average market list price of $640 per metric ton in 2004 to $650 per metric ton in 2005, a 2 percent increase. Year over year, higher per ton wood pulp costs had an unfavorable impact of $2.0 million. Inflationary cost increases were partially offset by improved mill operations and lower start up expenses. Start up costs totaling $0.8 million were incurred during 2005 related to the start up of paper manufacturing equipment in Brazil and the United States, while pre operating and start up costs of $3.7 million were incurred related to rebuilt or new paper machines in the United States, Brazil and France in 2004. 45 Nonmanufacturing Expenses Percent Percent of Net Sales 2005 2004 Change Change 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Selling expense $ 24.4 $ 27.1 $ (2.7 ) (10.0 )% 3.6 % 4.1 % Research expense 9.0 9.3 (0.3 ) (3.2 ) 1.4 1.4 General expense 24.6 28.0 (3.4 ) (12.1 ) 3.7 4.3 Nonmanufacturing expenses $ 58.0 $ 64.4 $ (6.4 ) (9.9 )% 8.7 % 9.8 % Nonmanufacturing expenses were $6.4 million, or 9.9 percent, lower than in 2004, primarily due to decreases in general and selling expenses. Lower general expenses of $3.4 million included lower salaried employee compensation expenses. The $2.7 million decrease in selling expense was largely associated with lower sales volumes in France. Nonmanufacturing expenses in 2004 included $1.2 million of Paris, France office closure expenses. Operating Profit Percent Return on Net Sales 2005 2004 Change 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) France $ 44.6 $ 60.1 (25.8 )% 10.7 % 14.1 % United States (0.7 ) 0.9 N.M. (0.3 ) 0.5 Brazil 0.6 4.5 (86.7 ) 1.0 9.0 Subtotal 44.5 65.5 Unallocated expenses (5.2 ) (7.8 ) Total $ 39.3 $ 57.7 (31.9 )% 5.9 % 8.8 % N.M. Not Meaningful Operating profit was $39.3 million for 2005, an $18.4 million, or 31.9 percent, decrease from $57.7 million in 2004. Operating profit in 2005 was unfavorably affected by the mix of products sold, unfavorable currency impacts of $3.6 million and increased purchased energy, wood pulp, purchased materials, employee benefits and labor expenses. Inflationary cost increases unfavorably impacted operating expenses by $24.9 million during 2005. These negative factors were partially offset by improved mill operations and $6.4 million of lower nonmanufacturing expenses. During 2004, $1.2 million of Paris, France office closure expenses were incurred in addition to $3.7 million of pre operating and start up costs related to rebuilt or new paper machines in the United States, Brazil and France. Start up costs totaling $0.8 million were incurred during 2005 related to the start up of paper manufacturing equipment in Brazil and the United States. The French segments operating profit was $44.6 million in 2005, which was a decrease of $15.5 million, or 25.8 percent, from the $60.1 million realized in 2004. The decrease was primarily due to: Inflationary cost increases accounting for $12.7 million, with increased purchased energy, purchased materials and labor expenses Lower average selling prices, reflecting challenging market conditions. Lower production and sales volumes, for both tobacco related papers and RTL products. These declines were partially offset by: Improved mill operations. 46 Lower nonmanufacturing expenses, including the absence of $1.2 million of Paris, France office closure expenses. The U.S. business unit had a $0.7 million operating loss during 2005, $1.6 million worse than the $0.9 million operating profit in 2004. This decrease was related to: Increased purchased energy, purchased materials, wood pulp, employee benefit and labor expenses. Inflationary cost increases totaled $10.1 million. Losses of $3.5 million associated with the cigarette paper booklets operation which was shut down in the fourth quarter of 2005. These unfavorable items were partially offset by: Higher average selling prices and an improved mix of products sold. Reduced pre operating and start up costs that totaled $2.9 million in 2004 versus $0.4 million in 2005 related to the operation of a rebuilt cigarette paper machine at the Spotswood mill and a rebuilt tipping paper machine at the Lee mill. Lower nonmanufacturing expenses. Brazils operating profit decreased by $3.9 million, or 86.7 percent, from $4.5 million in 2004 to $0.6 million in 2005. This decrease was related to: The stronger Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar, which had an unfavorable currency impact of $4.1 million. Inflationary cost increases including purchased energy, chemicals and wood pulp. Lower average selling prices. These unfavorable items were partially offset by: Higher production and sales volumes. Non Operating Expenses Interest expense was $2.5 million higher during 2005 compared with the prior year because of increased debt levels and higher interest rates. The weighted average effective interest rates on our long term revolving debt facilities were 3.7 percent in 2005 and 2.4 percent in 2004. Other income (expense), net in both 2005 and 2004, included interest income and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income of $2.5 million in 2005 was favorable compared with other income of $1.5 million in 2004. This difference was primarily a result of a favorable business tax case settlement in Brazil and a gain on the sale of property in Indonesia. 47 Income Taxes Provision for income taxes reflected an effective income tax rate of 29.2 percent for 2005 compared with 21.8 percent for 2004. The comparison was impacted by adjustments in 2005 and 2004 to valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets. Additional 2005 income tax provision of $1.6 million resulted from the effects of a domestic loss in 2005 on foreign tax credit carryforwards, the benefit of which was not currently expected to be fully realized prior to expiration of the tax credits. In 2004, we made favorable adjustments to valuation allowances recorded against deferred income tax assets as a result of realization of foreign tax credit carryforwards utilized in our 2003 U.S. federal income tax return and changes in our expectations as to the realization of such assets in 2004 and beyond due to changes in estimates of our U.S. income tax situation and an increase in the carryforward period of foreign tax credits from 5 years to 10 years provided in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Additionally, we recorded income tax benefits from a decrease in the French statutory corporate income tax rate enacted in 2004, which decreased from 35.3 percent for 2004 to 34.8 percent in 2005 and 34.3 percent in 2006 and beyond, that reduced the net deferred income tax liability, and from the recovery of prior year taxes in France related to a favorable court ruling. The total of these items reduced the provision for income taxes, benefiting 2004 net income by $3.2 million. Minority Interest Minority interest decreased to $5.8 million from $7.0 million in 2004. This $1.2 million, or 17.1 percent, decrease was directly related to lower profitability at LTRI, a French subsidiary, which produces RTL products and has a 28 percent minority owner. Net Income and Earnings Per Share Net income for 2005 was $19.4 million, a 46.7 percent decrease compared with net income of $36.4 million in 2004. Diluted earnings per share decreased by 46.6 percent to $1.26 compared with diluted earnings per share of $2.36 for the prior year. Liquidity and Capital Resources A major factor in our liquidity and capital resource planning is our generation of cash flow from operations, which is sensitive to changes in the sales mix, volume and pricing of our products, as well as changes in our production volumes, costs and working capital. Cash Requirements At December 31, 2006, we had net operating working capital of $74.4 million and cash and cash equivalents of $13.7 million, compared with net operating working capital of $94.3 million and cash and cash equivalents of $5.1 million at December 31, 2005. Changes in these amounts include the impacts of changes in currency exchange rates which are not included in the changes in operating working capital presented on the consolidated statements of cash flow. The decrease in net operating working capital was primarily a result of decreased accounts receivable and lower inventories, partially offset by decreased accounts payable. Based upon our existing cash and operating working capital levels, expected operating cash flows and capital spending and availability of borrowings under our Credit Agreement and other credit facilities, we believe we have the necessary financial resources to satisfy our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. 48 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Net income (loss) $ (0.8 ) $ 19.4 $ 36.4 Non cash items included in net income Depreciation and amortization 38.2 39.5 36.5 Restructuring accelerated depreciation 5.2 Amortization of deferred revenue (5.9 ) (7.4 ) (5.7 ) Deferred income tax provision (benefit) (10.6 ) 1.9 2.1 Minority interest in earnings of subsidiaries 4.1 5.8 7.0 Other items 1.2 (6.5 ) 1.6 Net changes in operating working capital 20.4 (14.6 ) (21.2 ) Cash Provided by Operations $ 51.8 $ 38.1 $ 56.7 Net cash provided by operations was $51.8 million, $38.1 million and $56.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our cash provided by operations increased $13.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase was primarily due to a $35.0 million favorable comparison between the 2 years in net changes in operating working capital, partially offset by a $20.2 million decrease in net income. Depreciation and amortization, including $5.2 million of accelerated depreciation recorded in 2006, increased $3.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. Depreciation and amortization increased $3.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with the year ended December 31, 2004 due to capital expenditures and accelerated depreciation on cigarette paper booklet assets in the United States and paper machine assets in France. Prior to 2004, our cash provided by operations included advanced payments from customers for future product purchases. We recorded these advance payments as deferred revenue, which is being amortized into net sales as earned and credited to customers based upon a mutually agreed upon amount per unit of product sales. At the current level of expected volumes, the deferred revenue balance is expected to be fully amortized by December 31, 2011. Operating Working Capital For the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Changes in operating working capital, excluding the effects of acquisition Accounts receivable $ 20.3 $ (11.8 ) $ 2.3 Inventories 11.9 (5.5 ) (15.4 ) Prepaid expenses (0.6 ) (4.0 ) 0.2 Accounts payable (11.5 ) (2.1 ) (1.6 ) Accrued expenses 0.9 3.4 (3.0 ) Accrued income taxes (0.6 ) 5.4 (3.7 ) Net changes in operating working capital, excluding the effects of acquisition $ 20.4 $ (14.6 ) $ (21.2 ) 49 In 2006, changes in operating working capital contributed favorably to cash flow by $20.4 million due primarily to lower accounts receivable and inventories, partially offset by lower accounts payable. The decrease in operating working capital was due to a concerted effort by us to improve performance in this area. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to reduced purchasing activity, especially in France where mill production levels have decreased. During 2006 and 2005, we occasionally sold receivables without recourse to improve liquidity and shorten the collection cycle when it was economical to do so. In 2005, changes in operating working capital contributed unfavorably to cash flow by $14.6 million due to higher accounts receivable and inventories, partially offset by higher accrued income taxes. The higher accounts receivable were due to increased sales, in part related to the Philippines acquisition and a change in customer mix in France and Brazil. Inventories were higher at year end 2005 compared with 2004 due to increased finished goods in France. In 2004, changes in operating working capital contributed unfavorably to cash flow by $21.2 million due primarily to higher inventories and accrued expenses. Inventories were higher at year end 2004 compared with 2003 due to increased raw material inventory levels and prices. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Capital spending $ (9.6 ) $ (18.8 ) $ (46.7 ) Capitalized software costs (3.8 ) (1.0 ) (2.2 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (11.9 ) (8.4 ) Investment in equity affiliates (2.9 ) Other 4.0 (5.0 ) 1.0 Cash Used for Investing $ (12.3 ) $ (36.7 ) $ (56.3 ) Cash used for investing activities was lower in 2006 primarily due to the 2005 acquisition of the Philippines business for $11.9 million and a lower level of capital spending in 2006. Cash used for investing activities in 2006 included $3.8 million of capitalized software costs and $2.9 million of equity injections into our joint venture in China. In March 2005, we authorized approximately $17 million for investment in an enterprise wide information system to enable full integration of supply chain and manufacturing functions and processes in France. Capitalized software costs in 2006 included $3.6 million related to this capitalized software project. Spending for this capitalized software project is expected to total $5 to $7 million in 2007. Cash used for investing activities in 2005 was below 2004 levels and reflected lower capital spending due to the completion of the new cigarette paper machine in Brazil, paper machine modifications in the United States and a new RTL production line in France that accounted for most of the higher capital spending in 2004. Our operations also require capital expenditures for improvements to existing facilities in order to continue to meet customer requirements. In 2005 and 2004, $11.9 million and $8.4 million were spent to acquire tobacco related paper manufacturing assets in the Philippines and a tobacco related paper manufacturer in Indonesia, respectively. 50 Capital Spending The following table summarizes capital spending by major project and year (dollars in millions): For the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 RTL expansion project $ $ $ 7.2 Cigarette paper manufacturing strategy 0.8 13.6 Subtotal 0.8 20.8 Other capital projects 9.6 18.0 25.9 Total capital spending $ 9.6 $ 18.8 $ 46.7 RTL expansion project. Spending for the new RTL production line at the Spay, France mill of LTRI, our 72 percent indirectly owned French subsidiary, was completed in 2004. Spending for the cigarette paper manufacturing strategy, which included rebuilt or new cigarette paper manufacturing equipment in both the United States and Brazil, was completed in 2005. Other capital projects. In 2006, no capital projects accumulated spending of $1.0 million or more. Other capital spending in 2005 and 2004 included the following projects with cumulative spending greater than $1 million: 2005 $1.5 million toward a second electrical perforator for cigarette paper in Saint Girons, France. 2004 $4.1 million toward upgrades of processes and equipment at the Lee, Massachusetts mills in order to expand our commercial and industrial papers capabilities in our U.S. business unit. $1.2 million toward a wastewater treatment facility upgrade project at the Ancram, New York mill. $1.1 million toward a new French sales office located in Spay, France. In September 2006, we announced plans for approximately $23 million of capital investments at the PdM facility in France as part of an overall restructuring plan intended to lower cost while also improving product quality. The capital investments address 3 areas including a rebuild of 1 of PdMs 2 large cigarette paper machines and installation of both additional robotized, high speed converting units and other related manufacturing support assets all intended to replace older, less efficient equipment. The paper machine rebuild and the additional robotization of converting are expected to substantially increase this production lines papermaking capacity while improving converting productivity to an even greater extent. These investments are expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2007. In Brazil, we have authorized approximately $9 million for a capital investment to rebuild and speed up a paper machine which currently produces base tipping and commercial and industrial papers. The expanded capacity of this machine and improved product quality are expected to better meet market requirements in Latin America as well as support expected growth in sales demand outside of Brazil. Spending for this investment is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2007. We incur spending necessary to meet legal requirements and otherwise relating to the protection of the environment at our facilities in the United States, France, the Philippines, Indonesia, Brazil and Canada. For these purposes, we incurred total capital expenditures of $1.2 million in 2006, and expect to incur approximately $2 million in each of 2007 and 2008, of which no material amount was the result of 51 environmental fines or settlements. Including expenditures associated with environmental matters, as of December 31, 2006, we had unrecorded outstanding commitments for capital expenditures of $5.5 million. Capital spending for 2007 is expected to be in the range of $55 to $65 million, including the recently announced $23 million capital investment at PdM as well as a planned upgrade of a paper machine in Brazil. We expect to finance these capital expenditures with internally generated funds and through borrowings on our existing credit facilities. Acquisitions In February 2004, SMF acquired the outstanding stock of P.T. Kimsari Paper Indonesia, or Kimsari, a specialty paper manufacturer located in Medan, Sumatra, Indonesia. Schweitzer Mauduit France paid $8.4 million, net of cash acquired, for the outstanding shares of Kimsari, funded through existing bank lines of credit. This acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method. The operating results of this acquisition have been included in the consolidated statement of earnings since the beginning of February 2004. In June 2005, PPI, acquired the tobacco related paper manufacturing assets of KCPI, a Philippines company and associated land and water rights. The acquired assets included buildings, production equipment and related utilities, support assets and inventories. The total acquisition cost was $11.9 million, funded through existing bank lines of credit. The production equipment included 2 paper machines, with annual production capacity of approximately 8,500 metric tons, and related converting equipment. Product produced at the mill includes cigarette paper, conventional plug wrap and both base and printed tipping paper. KCPI had engaged in the manufacturing of tobacco related paper products for the Philippines cigarette industry since 1967 and had an estimated 60 percent market share of the Philippines cigarette paper market. The marketing and sales of PPI products have been integrated with the efforts of our French operations in the southeast Asian market. The PPI acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method, and its operating results have been included in the consolidated statement of earnings since the beginning of July 2005. In July 2005, we executed an agreement to form a joint venture to build a new mill in China with 2 paper machines to produce cigarette paper and porous plug wrap and having an annual paper production capacity of approximately 18,000 metric tons. The new mill is under construction near Jiangmen, in the Guangdong province. During 2006, we invested $2.9 million in the joint venture and incurred $0.2 million in pre operating losses. Our share of the net loss has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement as Loss from Equity Affiliates since June 2006. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Cash dividends paid to SWM stockholders $ (9.4 ) $ (9.1 ) $ (8.9 ) Cash dividends paid to minority owners (3.7 ) (3.6 ) (3.8 ) Net changes in debt (20.7 ) 6.0 13.0 Purchases of treasury stock (1.0 ) (8.0 ) Proceeds from exercise of stock options 2.2 6.9 7.9 Excess tax benefits of stock based awards 0.5 Cash Provided by (Used for) Financing $ (31.1 ) $ (0.8 ) $ 0.2 Financing activities during 2006 included borrowings of $105.8 million, including borrowings under a new credit agreement, and repayments totaling $126.5 million, including repayments under a prior credit 52 agreement, for a net decrease in debt of $20.7 million corresponding to a decrease in operating working capital. Other 2006 financing activities included dividends paid to SWM stockholders and minority owners. Proceeds from stock option exercises declined from the prior year level. Financing activities during 2005 included borrowings of $11.9 million and repayments totaling $5.9 million for a net increase in debt of $6.0 million. The increased debt was used to fund capital expenditures and the acquisition of the Philippines tobacco related paper manufacturing assets. Other 2005 financing activities included dividends paid to SWM stockholders and minority owners. Purchases of treasury stock declined due to various factors, including stock price, strategic opportunities and cash availability. Proceeds from stock option exercises declined from the prior year level. Financing activities during 2004 included borrowings of $24.6 million and repayments totaling $11.6 million for a net increase in debt of $13.0 million. The increased debt was used to fund capital expenditures and the acquisition of the Indonesian business. Other 2004 financing activities included dividends paid to SWM stockholders and minority owners. Purchases of treasury stock were largely offset by proceeds from stock option exercises. Dividend Payments We have declared and paid quarterly dividends of $0.15 per share since the second quarter of 1996. We currently expect to continue this level of quarterly dividend. Our Credit Agreement covenants require us to maintain certain financial ratios, as disclosed in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, none of which under normal business conditions materially limit our ability to pay such dividends, and we do not currently anticipate any change in business conditions of a nature that would cause future restrictions on dividend payments as a result of our need to maintain these financial ratios. On January 25, 2007, we announced that the Board of Directors had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share of Common Stock. The dividend will be payable on March 12, 2007 to stockholders of record on February 12, 2007. Cash dividends paid to minority owners primarily relate to the minority owners share of dividends paid by LTRI, our 72 percent indirectly owned French subsidiary. Debt Instruments and Related Covenants For the Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Changes in short term debt $ (13.7 ) $ 7.7 $ Proceeds from issuances of long term debt 105.8 4.2 24.6 Payments on long term debt (112.8 ) (5.9 ) (11.6 ) Net changes in debt $ (20.7 ) $ 6.0 $ 13.0 New Credit Agreement. In July 2006, Schweitzer Mauduit International, Inc. and SMF, a wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a new unsecured credit agreement with a group of banks, or the Credit Agreement, to refinance our prior credit agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for (a) additional borrowing capacity of approximately $60 million, increasing the total facilities to $195 million from $135 million, (b) a reduced number of tranches from 4 to 2, (c) extended terms, with the maturity date of the new facilities being no earlier than July 2011, (d) lower interest rate margins and (e) fewer, less restrictive financial covenant requirements. The Credit Agreement replaced the prior credit agreement executed in January 2002 that was scheduled to expire in January 2007. We repaid the outstanding amount of the prior credit agreement, which included both 5 year revolvers and 364 day revolvers in the 53 United States and France, with proceeds from borrowings under the Credit Agreement on July 31, 2006. Borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement of $65.0 million have been classified as long term debt in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 under the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for a $95 million U.S. revolving credit facility, or U.S. revolver, and an 80 million revolving credit facility, or Euro revolver, both with 5 year terms, plus 2 one year extension options, with the extensions at the discretion of the participating banks. The Credit Agreement contains representations and warranties which are customary for facilities of this type and covenants and provisions that, among other things, require us to maintain (a) a net debt to equity ratio not to exceed 1.0 and (b) a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio not to exceed 3.0. The increased amount of the facility and its favorable terms provide greater flexibility to pursue various strategic opportunities. Repayment of amounts drawn under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated in limited circumstances, which include events of default not timely cured and change of control events. Under the Credit Agreement, interest rates are at market rates, based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, for U.S. dollar borrowings and the Euro Interbank Offered Rate, or EURIBOR, for euro borrowings, plus an applicable margin that varies from 0.35 percent to 0.75 percent per annum depending on the Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement. We incur commitment fees at an annual rate of either 0.30 or 0.35 percent of the applicable margin on the committed amounts not drawn, depending on the Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio. The U.S. parent guarantees borrowings by SMF under the Euro Credit Facility. The U.S. parent also has the ability to borrow under the Euro Credit Facility, although we do not currently anticipate doing so. As of December 31, 2006, we had $30 million available for additional borrowing under our U.S. revolver and 80 million available under our Euro revolver. Borrowings outstanding against the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2006 totaled $65 million. We anticipate 2007 borrowings on the U.S. and Euro revolver to be in the range of $45 to $55 million. Our credit facilities are more fully described in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective November 2006, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement to fix the LIBOR rate on $30 million of our variable rate long term debt at 5.13 percent. This had the effect of fixing our interest rate, including margin, at 5.48 percent on $30 million of our debt as of December 31, 2006. Our only other interest rate swap agreement in effect during 2005 or 2006 ended January 31, 2005. Our total debt to capital ratios at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were 23 percent and 27 percent, respectively, both near or within our target range of 25 to 35 percent. Share Repurchases We did not repurchase any shares of our Common Stock during 2006. We repurchased a total of 29,270 shares of our Common Stock during 2005 at a cost of $1.0 million. The 2005 share repurchases were made under a Board of Directors authorization covering the period January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2006. In December 2006, the Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to an additional $20.0 million of our Common Stock during the period January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. Corporate 10b5 1 plans are used by us so that share repurchases can be made at predetermined stock price levels, without restricting such repurchases to specific windows of time. Future Common Stock repurchases will be dependent upon various factors, including the stock price, strategic opportunities and cash availability. 54 Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources Postretirement Benefits. After being in a net overfunded position in 2000 and prior years, our U.S. and French pension plans changed to an underfunded status in 2001 as a result of the poor performance of the equities markets and lower interest rates that caused estimated future pension liabilities to increase because of the necessity to use a lower discount rate. The underfunded pension status has continued since 2001 (see additional disclosure regarding our pension plans in Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). During 2003, interest rates continued to decline, but the equities markets improved and we made pension contributions of $10.7 million in the United States and France. During 2004 and 2005, long term interest rates declined further, equities markets improved and we made pension contributions of $10.8 million and $13.7 million, respectively. Equities markets continued to perform favorably, long term interest rates rose during 2006 and we made pension contributions of $6.4 million to our U.S. and French pension plans during the year. These plans were still underfunded by $30.9 million as of December 31, 2006 as it relates to the associated accumulated pension benefit obligations. We currently expect to make pension contributions in 2007 of $7 to $12 million and additional amounts in future years in the United States and France in order to help improve the funded status of these plans. However, negative returns in the equities markets or lower interest rates could negatively impact the funded status of these plans. Other Commitments. Our mill in Quimperle, France has a minimum annual commitment for calcium carbonate purchases, a raw material used in the manufacturing of some paper products, which totals approximately $2 million per year. Our future purchases at this mill are expected to be at levels that exceed such minimum levels under the contract. The contract expires in 2009. In March 2004, LTRI, our 72 percent indirectly owned subsidiary in France, entered into an agreement with an energy cogeneration supplier whereby the supplier would construct and operate a cogeneration facility at the LTRI mill and supply steam which would be used in the operation of the mill. In April 2004, a similar agreement was entered into with the same supplier to install and operate a cogeneration facility at PdM. These agreements are expected to reduce the energy cost of these mills. The construction phase of the LTRI cogeneration facility was completed late in 2005 and the construction of the PdM cogeneration facility should be completed in the first half of 2007, with the supplier bearing the entire capital cost of both projects. Following start up of these facilities, LTRI and PdM will be committed to purchasing minimum annual amounts of steam generated by each of these facilities for a period of 15 years under the agreements. These minimum annual commitments together will total approximately $4 million. LTRIs and PdMs current and expected requirements for steam are at levels that exceed the minimum levels under the respective contracts. During 2006, SWM B and PdM both entered into agreements for the transmission and distribution of energy. SWM B, our indirect Brazilian subsidiary, entered into the first of a series of agreements for purchased electricity supply and distribution to the mill effective May 1, 2006. The contract for the electrical energy supply is for the period May 1, 2006 to December 31, 2010 to cover 100 percent of the mills consumption of electrical energy. The contract is with CESP, which is the third largest electrical energy producer in Brazil and the largest in the State of Sao Paulo, which is adjacent to the State of Rio de Janeiro. The absolute value of the electric energy to be provided under this contract is estimated at approximately $5 million annually (based on current foreign currency exchange rates) during the contractual period. The contract provides for a fixed price in each of the calendar year periods of the contract. The contract includes a take or pay obligation with the target energy consumption amount based on estimated average consumption by the mill. The agreements for transmission and distribution, signed by SWM B in May 2006, remained with the previous electrical energy supplier under regulated tariffs. Each of these 2 agreements is a revolving annual contract with Light EDF, which is the largest distributor of electrical energy in the State of Rio de Janeiro, the state in which SWM B is located. The absolute value of 55 the services to be provided under these 2 contracts combined is estimated at approximately $3 million annually (based on current foreign currency exchange rates). In October 2006, PdM entered into an agreement for the supply of 100 percent of its requirements for natural gas supply and associated distribution to service its paper mill located in Quimperl. The contract is with ENI S.p.A., an international energy supplier acting in approximately 70 countries. The contract is for the period April 1, 2007 to April 1, 2008. The absolute value of the natural gas and distribution to be provided under this contract is estimated at approximately $10 million (based on estimated energy consumption and current foreign currency exchange rates) during the contractual period. The contract provides for a fixed price amount per month plus a variable price for each unit of energy used up to a maximum daily volume. The contract may be renewed with all terms and conditions remaining in force with the exception of volumes and contract prices, which are subject to negotiation. As more fully discussed under Recent Developments and Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we will make PdM severance payments during 2007 and 2008. The following commitments table reflects the years in which these severance payments will be made which is not necessarily the period in which the liability or expense was recorded. Cash payments of negotiated severance amounts associated with the French restructuring actions are expected to total $11.7 million in 2007. In addition, our total future minimum obligations under non cancelable operating leases having an initial or remaining term in excess of 1 year as of December 31, 2006 are less than $1.4 million annually over each of the next 5 years. The following table represents our future contractual cash requirements for the next 5 years and thereafter for our long term debt obligations and other commitments (dollars in millions): Payments due for the periods ended Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Contractual Obligations Current debt(1) $ 17.1 $ 17.1 $ $ $ $ $ Long term debt(2) 80.2 4.6 4.0 3.1 68.1 0.4 Debt interest(3) 19.1 5.0 4.1 4.0 3.8 2.2 Restructuring obligations(4) 22.5 11.7 10.8 Minimum operating lease payments(5) 5.9 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 Purchase obligations capital projects(6) 5.5 5.5 Purchase obligations raw materials(7) 14.5 3.5 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 Purchase obligations energy(8) 67.6 22.3 14.2 11.6 11.7 3.9 3.9 Joint venture funding obligation(9) 14.4 12.4 2.0 Other long term liabilities(10)(11)(12) Total $ 246.8 $78.8 $ 39.2 $ 23.0 $21.9 $ 77.4 $ 6.5 (1) Current debt includes borrowings against bank overdraft facilities; see Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) See additional information regarding long term debt in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) The amounts reflected in debt interest are based upon the short term and long term scheduled principal maturities and interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2006. Where specific maturities are not stated, such as for an overdraft line of credit, a repayment date coinciding with the end of the year was used for purposes of these calculations. Since our debt is largely variable interest rate debt, applicable market interest rates were assumed to be the same as at December 31, 2006 for purposes of 56 these calculations. With respect to our variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2006, a 1 percentage point increase in interest rates would increase our debt interest obligation by $0.9 million in 2007. For more information regarding our outstanding debt and associated interest rates, see Note 4 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) Restructuring obligations represent severance owed to PdM employees in accordance with French law and French labor union agreements. See additional information regarding restructuring activities in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Minimum operating lease payments relate to our future minimum obligations under non cancelable operating leases having an initial or remaining term in excess of 1 year as of December 31, 2006. (6) Purchase obligations for capital projects relate to legally binding purchases entered into by us related to our capital projects and for which delivery of equipment or services has not yet occurred as of December 31, 2006. (7) Purchase obligations for raw materials include our calcium carbonate purchase agreement at our mill in Quimperle, France, in which a vendor operates an on site calcium carbonate plant and our mill has minimum purchase quantities (see Note 8 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this obligation). (8) Purchase obligations for energy include obligations under agreements (1) with an energy cogeneration supplier at our mills in Quimperle and Spay, France, in which the vendor will supply steam and our mills have minimum purchase commitments (2) a natural gas supplier to supply and distribute 100 percent of the natural gas needs of our Quimperl mill in France and (3) with an energy supplier to supply a constant supply of electricity for our Pirahy mill in Brazil (see Note 8 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this obligation). (9) During 2005, we reached agreement with CNTC to form a joint venture to build a new mill near Jiangmen, China. Construction has begun on this new mill. Project spending of the joint venture, including capital expenditures and working capital requirements, is expected to total approximately $100 million, with SWM and CNTC each sharing equally in the equity investment in the joint venture. The joint venture is expected to have a capital structure of approximately 1/3 equity and 2/3 debt, with project financing obtained by the joint venture itself. We currently expect our remaining equity funding of $14.4 million to be approximately $12.4 million and $2.0 million in 2007 and 2008, respectively. (10) We had no other long term liabilities as defined for purposes of this disclosure by the Securities and Exchange Commission as of December 31, 2006. (11) The amounts reflected in other long term liabilities do not include any amounts for our pension obligations. The pension obligations are funded by our separate pension trusts, which held $117.9 million in assets at December 31, 2006. We make discretionary contributions to our pension trusts based on many factors including regulatory guidelines, investment returns of the trusts and availability of cash for pension contributions versus other priorities. We currently expect to contribute $7 to $12 million during 2007 in order to help improve the funded status of these plans. Supplemental employee retirement plan payments, which are immaterial, are not included in this line item. For more information regarding our long term pension obligations and trust assets, including our supplemental employee retirement plan, see Note 6 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (12) The amounts reflected in other long term liabilities do not include any amounts for our postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefits. Such payments are dependent upon the incurrence of costs and filing of claims by our retirees and thus the amounts of such future payments 57 are uncertain. Our net payments under these plans were $2.3 million and $1.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Based on this past experience, we currently expect our share of the payments to be approximately $1 to $2 million during 2007 for these benefits. For more information regarding our retiree healthcare and life insurance benefit obligations, see Note 6 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Outlook We remain encouraged about our business outlook despite finishing 2006 with disappointing, albeit expected, financial results. We are confident in our previously announced strategies for restructuring our French and U.S. businesses to better balance capacity to available demand. Sales growth is planned for cigarette paper used in LIP cigarettes and for RTL products. Additional progress is anticipated in cost reduction activities initiated across all our business units. The benefits from cost reduction activities are expected to further offset the continuing unfavorable impacts of lower production volumes and inflationary cost increases that have been experienced during the last 2 years. The cautionary note to our improved outlook for 2007 is continued weakness in tobacco related product sales. Reduced demand for tobacco related paper products in western Europe and the United States caused us to have excess production capacity throughout 2006 and increased machine downtime that unfavorably impacted operating profit by $18 million. Our actions to reduce inventories, especially in the fourth quarter of 2006, as well as the restructuring actions already announced, place us in a better position to reduce these impacts in 2007. However, we continue to evaluate how to operate our worldwide production facilities more effectively with the reduced volumes of tobacco related papers. Analysis is ongoing into possible further restructuring activities that could result in additional expenses. PdM restructuring expenses are now projected to be in the range of $26 to $28 million for 2006 through 2008, including cash severance and other related costs of approximately $23 to $25 million and approximately $3 million for non cash accelerated depreciation of fixed assets. The actual amount of severance expenses will be dependent upon the final number of individuals within each of the 3 possible categories for employee severance that include early retirement, other voluntary means and involuntary terminations. The PdM workforce reductions are expected to generate annual pre tax labor savings of approximately $14 million due to both restructuring activities and planned capital investments. Full realization of the labor savings is expected to occur after the first quarter of 2008. We expect to realize annual pre tax benefits greater than $14 million upon full implementation of all elements of the PdM strategy, including the planned capital investments. Sales of cigarette papers for LIP cigarettes are expected to continue to positively contribute to operating results in 2007, especially as we realize manufacturing efficiencies. We experienced increased sales during the fourth quarter of 2006 prior to the January 1, 2007 effective date for lower ignition propensity regulations in California. With further increases in sales volumes of this cigarette paper combined with expected continuing improvements in manufacturing costs, this product should provide additional improvement to the U.S. business unit results. Inflationary cost increases totaled $18 million in 2006. Purchased energy cost increases have begun to slow and even reverse in the United States. Wood pulp prices continue to increase, but at a slower 2 percent rate during the fourth quarter of 2006, which brought the full year 2006 increase to 12 percent. Pulp producers have announced a $20 per metric ton, or 3 percent, increase in the list price of NBSK effective in January 2007. While inflationary cost increases persist, we believe the rate will slow and will be increasingly offset through improved mill operations and continued efforts to systematically control all areas of cost. Consistent with recent historical trends, worldwide cigarette consumption is expected to increase at a rate of approximately 1/2 to 1 percent per year. The anticipated decline in the production of cigarettes in 58 developed countries is expected to be more than offset by increased cigarette production in developing countries that currently represent approximately 70 percent of worldwide cigarette production. Population demographics and expected increases in disposable income are expected to support the increased consumption of cigarettes in developing countries. In addition, the litigation environment is different in most foreign countries compared with the United States, having less of an impact on the pricing of cigarettes, which, in turn, affects cigarette consumption. Cigarette production in the United States is expected to continue to decline as a result of reduced cigarette exports and a decline in domestic cigarette consumption caused by increased cigarette prices, health concerns and public perceptions. As well, cigarette consumption has declined in western Europe following recent tax increases on cigarette sales and smoking restrictions. In developing countries, there is a trend toward consumption of more sophisticated cigarettes, which utilize higher quality tobacco related papers, such as those we produce, and RTL. This trend toward more sophisticated cigarettes reflects increased governmental regulations concerning tar delivery levels and increased competition from multinational cigarette manufacturers. Based on these trends, we expect worldwide demand for tobacco related papers and RTL products to continue to increase, with a shift from developed countries to developing countries. As a result, we have been and continue to increase our production capacity in developing countries such as Brazil, the Philippines, Indonesia and China. Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to the safe harbor created by that Act. These statements include those in the Outlook and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates sections and our expectations elsewhere in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, and in Factors That May Affect Future Results under Risk Factors in Item 1A. They also include statements containing expect, anticipate, project, appears, should, could, may, typically and similar words. Actual results may differ materially from the results suggested by these statements for a number of reasons, including the following: We have manufacturing facilities in 6 countries and sell products in over 90 countries. As a result, we are subject to a variety of import and export, tax, foreign currency, labor and other regulations within these countries. Changes in these regulations, or adverse interpretations or applications, as well as changes in currency exchange rates, could adversely impact our business in a variety of ways, including increasing expenses, decreasing sales, limiting our ability to repatriate funds and generally limiting our ability to conduct business. Our financial performance is dependent upon the cost of raw materials, particularly wood pulp, purchased energy, chemicals and labor. Recently the cost of these items has increased significantly, and the nature of our agreements with our customers may make it difficult to pass changes in these costs on to our customers in a timely and effective manner. Our sales are concentrated to a limited number of customers. In 2006, 40 percent of our sales were to our 2 largest customers. The loss of 1 or both such customers, or a significant reduction in 1 or both of these customers purchases, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our financial performance is materially impacted by sales of both RTL products and LIP cigarette papers. A significant change in the sales or production volumes, pricing or manufacturing costs of these products could have a material impact on future financial results. 59 As a result of excess capacity in the tobacco related papers industry and increased operating costs experienced in the last 2 to 3 years, particularly related to purchased energy, competitive levels of selling prices for certain of our products are not sufficient to cover those costs with a margin that we consider reasonable. Such competitive pressures have resulted in downtime of certain paper machines and, in some cases, accelerated depreciation of certain equipment and employee severance expenses associated with downsizing activities. Management continues to evaluate how to operate our production facilities more effectively with reduced tobacco related papers volumes. Further changes are possible that might require accelerated depreciation or write offs of some equipment and could possibly include additional expenses for employee related costs associated with further downsizing activities. In recent years, governmental entities around the world, particularly in the United States and western Europe, have taken or have proposed actions that may have the effect of reducing consumption of tobacco products. Reports with respect to the possible harmful physical effects of cigarette smoking and use of tobacco products have been publicized for many years and, together with actions to restrict or prohibit advertising and promotion of cigarettes or other tobacco products, to limit smoking in public places and to increase taxes on such products, are intended to discourage the consumption of cigarettes and other such products. Also in recent years, certain governmental entities, particularly in North America, have enacted, considered or proposed actions that would require cigarettes to meet specifications aimed at reducing their likelihood of igniting fires when the cigarettes are not actively being smoked. Furthermore, it is not possible to predict what additional legislation or regulations relating to tobacco products will be enacted, or to what extent, if any, such legislation or regulations might affect our business. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The information with respect to our market risk is contained under the caption Market Risk in Risk Factors appearing in Part I, Item 1A. 60 
</SECTION>
