<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: UNION CARBIDE CORP /NEW/
CIK: 0000100790
SIC: 2860
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070220
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Pursuant to General Instruction I of Form 10 K Omission of Information by Certain Wholly Owned Subsidiaries, this section includes only managements narrative analysis of the results of operation for the year ended December 31, 2006, the most recent fiscal year, compared with the year ended December 31, 2005, the fiscal year immediately preceding it. References below to Dow refer to The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, except as the context otherwise requires. The Corporations business activities comprise components of Dows global operations rather than stand alone operations. Dow conducts its worldwide operations through global businesses. Because there are no separable reportable business segments for UCC under SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, and no detailed business information is provided to a chief operating decision maker regarding the Corporations stand alone operations, the Corporations results are reported as a single operating segment. Forward Looking Information The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements made by or on behalf of Union Carbide Corporation (the Corporation or UCC). This section covers the current performance and outlook of the Corporation. The forward looking statements contained in this section and in other parts of this document involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the Corporations operations, markets, products, services, prices and other factors as more fully discussed elsewhere and in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic, competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Corporations expectations will be realized. The Corporation assumes no obligation to provide revisions to any forward looking statements should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws. Results of Operation Total net sales for 2006 were $7.5 billion up 18 percent from $6.4 billion in 2005. Sales to Dow in 2006 were $7.0 billion compared with $6.1 billion in 2005. Selling prices to Dow are based on market prices for the related products. Increases in average selling prices occurred for most products in 2006 compared with 2005, including polyethylene, polypropylene, oxo products, and wire and cable products. Volume rebounded solidly from 2005 levels, which had been negatively affected by planned maintenance turnarounds at the Corporations two ethylene crackers at its St. Charles Operations in Hahnville, Louisiana, as well as disruptions in production and distribution caused by two hurricanes affecting the U. S. Gulf Coast in the second half of 2005. Total net sales for 2006 were also favorably impacted by significant lump sum technology licensing revenue earned in the first quarter of 2006. Technology licensing revenue varies from period to period due to the nature of the business. Cost of sales for 2006 increased $873 million compared with 2005, primarily due to an increase in feedstock costs, which was partially offset by the impact of improved operating rates. Gross margin for 2006 was $965 million compared with $698 million for 2005 as increases in selling prices and the impact of higher volume more than offset the higher feedstock costs. Restructuring charges in 2006 of $14 million included the write off of the net book value of three manufacturing facilities totaling $10 million (the largest of which was $8 million associated with the shutdown of the peroxymeric chemicals production facility in St. Charles, Louisiana, in October 2006) and costs totaling $4 million related to the dissolution of a consolidated joint venture in China which ceased operations in October 2006 (including $3 million associated with the write off of the net book value of fixed assets). In 2005, the Corporation recorded a restructuring charge of $11 million for an asset write off associated with the shutdown of three R&D pilot plants in the South Charleston, West Virginia facility. In the fourth quarter of 2006, following the completion of a new study to review its asbestos claim and resolution activity, the Corporation decreased its asbestos related liability for pending and future claims (excluding future defense and processing costs) by $177 million. The reduction is shown as Asbestos related credit in the consolidated statements of income. See Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding asbestos related matters. Equity in earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates declined from $476 million in 2005 to $395 million in 2006 due primarily to the absence of equity earnings from UOP LLC (UOP), which the Corporation exited in the fourth quarter of 2005. In addition, higher reported earnings from Univation Technologies, LLC were offset by lower reported earnings from the Corporations other joint ventures in 2006. On November 30, 2005, the Corporation completed the sale of its indirect 50 percent interest in UOP to a wholly owned subsidiary of Honeywell International, Inc. for a purchase price of $867 million, which resulted in a pretax gain of $637 million. 9 Sundry income (expense) net includes a variety of income and expense items such as dividend income, the gain or loss on foreign currency exchange, commissions, charges for management services provided by Dow, and gains and losses on sales of investments and assets. Sundry income (expense) net for 2006 was net expense of $39 million, compared with net income of $145 million in 2005. Sundry expense for 2006 included dividend income of approximately $35 million from Dow International Holdings Company (DIHC). Sundry income for 2005 included a $70 million pretax gain on the sale of a portion of the Corporations ownership interest in EQUATE (See Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and dividend income of approximately $118 million (including $86 million from DIHC and $29 million from Dow Chemical Canada Inc.). Interest income for 2006 was $128 million compared with $29 million in 2005, reflecting a sizeable increase in the level of interest bearing assets in the fourth quarter of 2005, sustained throughout 2006, in addition to higher interest rates. Interest expense and amortization of debt discount for 2006 decreased $17 million compared with 2005, as reduced levels of long term debt were achieved through the early extinguishment of approximately $436 million of debt, most of which occurred in the first half of 2005. The provision for income taxes was $420 million in 2006 compared with $496 million in 2005. UCCs overall effective tax rate was 28.6 percent for 2006, compared with 27.4 percent for 2005. UCCs effective tax rate fluctuates based on, among other factors, where income is earned, the level of after tax income from joint ventures, and the level of income relative to available tax credits. The effective tax rate for 2006 was higher than for 2005 principally due to lower earnings from the Corporations joint ventures. Since most of the earnings from nonconsolidated affiliates are taxed at the joint venture level, the impact of lower equity earnings increased the Corporations overall effective tax rate. In addition, the effective tax rate for 2005 reflected the favorable impact of $29 million of dividend income from Dow Canada in 2005, which was based on previously taxed income. The Corporation is included in Dows consolidated federal income tax group and consolidated income tax return. The underlying factors affecting UCCs overall effective tax rates are summarized in Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Corporation reported net income of $1.0 billion for 2006, compared with $1.3 billion for 2005. Although the results for 2006 included higher interest income and the asbestos related credit discussed above, net income declined from 2005 which included the favorable impact of the gain on the UOP sale and higher dividends from related companies. OTHER MATTERS Accounting Changes See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of significant accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Following are the Corporations critical accounting policies impacted by judgments, assumptions and estimates: Litigation The Corporation is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising out of the normal course of business. The Corporation routinely assesses the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters, as well as ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of the reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after thoughtful analysis of each known issue and an actuarial analysis of historical claims experience for incurred but not reported matters. The Corporation has an active risk management program consisting of numerous insurance policies secured from many carriers. These policies provide coverage that is utilized to minimize the impact, if any, of the legal proceedings. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. For further discussion, see Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 10 Asbestos Related Matters The Corporation, and a former subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem), are and have been involved in a large number of asbestos related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, the Corporation increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos related liability for pending and future claims for the 15 year period ending in 2017 to $2.2 billion, excluding future defense and processing costs. The Corporation also increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to $1.35 billion at December 31, 2002. Since then, the Corporation has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the accrual continues to be appropriate. In November 2004, the Corporation requested ARPC to review the Corporations historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2003 study. In January 2005, ARPC provided the Corporation with a report summarizing the results of its study. Based on the low end of the range in the January 2005 study, the recorded asbestos related liability for pending and future claims at December 31, 2004 would be sufficient to resolve asbestos related claims against UCC and Amchem into 2019. In November 2005, the Corporation requested ARPC to review the Corporations 2005 asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2005 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2005. In January 2006, ARPC stated that an update of its study would not provide a more likely estimate of future events than the estimate reflected in its study of the previous year and, therefore, the estimate in that study remained applicable. Based on the Corporations own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity and ARPCs response, the Corporation determined that no change to the accrual was required. At December 31, 2005, the recorded asbestos related liability for pending and future claims was $1.5 billion. In November 2006, the Corporation requested ARPC to review the Corporations historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2005 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2006 and concluded that the experience from 2004 through 2006 was sufficient for the purpose of forecasting future filings and values of asbestos claims filed against UCC and Amchem, and could be used in place of previous assumptions to update its January 2005 study. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2006, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos related claims against UCC and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2021 was estimated to be between approximately $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion. As in its January 2005 study, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2006 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time. Based on ARPCs December 2006 study and the Corporations own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, the Corporation decreased its asbestos related liability for pending and future claims to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2006 which will now cover the 15 year period ending in 2021 (excluding future defense and processing costs). The reduction was $177 million and is shown as Asbestos related credit in the consolidated statements of income. The Corporations receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $495 million at December 31, 2006 and $535 million at December 31, 2005. In addition, the Corporation had receivables of $300 million at December 31, 2006 and $400 million at December 31, 2005 for insurance recoveries for defense and resolution costs. The amounts recorded by the Corporation for the asbestos related liability and related insurance receivable were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries for the Corporation to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded. For additional information, see Legal Proceedings, Asbestos Related Matters in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, and Note I to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 11 Environmental Matters The Corporation determines the costs of environmental remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on evaluations of current law and existing technologies. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and evolving technologies. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. At December 31, 2006, the Corporation had accrued obligations of $77 million for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $25 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Corporation has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to twice that amount. At December 31, 2005, the Corporation had accrued obligations of $87 million for environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $34 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. For further discussion, see Environmental Matters in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Notes A and I to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to pension and other postretirement benefits are determined from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including expected return on plan assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could be settled at December 31, 2006, rate of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affect expense recognized and obligations recorded in future periods. The Corporation determined the expected long term rate of return on assets by performing a detailed analysis of historical and expected returns based on the strategic asset allocation and the underlying return fundamentals of each asset class. The Corporations historical experience with the pension fund asset performance and comparisons to expected returns of peer companies with similar fund assets were also considered. The long term rate of return assumption used for determining net periodic pension expense for 2006 was 8.75 percent. This assumption was changed to 8.4 percent for determining 2007 net periodic pension expense. The actual rate of return in 2006 was 11.4 percent. Future actual pension income will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the population of participants in the Corporations pension plans. A 25 basis point adjustment in the long term return on assets assumption would change total pension expense for 2007 by approximately $10 million. The Corporation bases the determination of pension expense or income on a market related valuation of plan assets, which reduces year to year volatility. This market related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the market related value of plan assets and the actual return based on the market value of plan assets. Since the market related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five year period, the future value of plan assets will be impacted when previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. Over the life of the plan, both gains and losses have been recognized and amortized. At December 31, 2006, $86 million of net gains remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market related value of plan assets. These net gains will result in decreases in future pension expense as they are recognized in the market related value of assets and are a component of the total net loss of $569 million shown under Amounts recognized in AOCI pretax in the table entitled Change in Projected Benefit Obligations, Plan Assets and Funded Status of all Significant Plans included in Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The other $655 million of net losses represents cumulative changes in plan experience and actuarial assumptions. The net increase in the market related value of assets due to the recognition of prior gains and losses is presented in the following table: Net Increase in Market Related Asset Value due to Recognition of Prior Asset Gains and Losses In millions 2007 $ 59 2008 11 2009 1 2010 15 Total $ 86 12 The discount rates utilized to measure the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are based on the yield on high quality fixed income investments at the measurement date. Future expected actuarially determined cash flows of the plans are matched against the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve (Above Median) to arrive at a single discount rate by plan. The resulting discount rate increased from 5.65 percent at December 31, 2005, to 5.95 percent at December 31, 2006. A 25 basis point adjustment in the discount rate assumption would change total pension expense for 2007 by approximately $7 million, with an immaterial change on the other postretirement benefit expense due to defined dollar limits (caps). For 2007, the Corporation maintained its assumption for the long term rate of increase in compensation levels of 4.5 percent. Since 2002, the Corporation has used a generational mortality table to determine the duration of its pension and other postretirement obligations. Based on the revised pension assumptions and changes in the market related value of assets due to the recognition of prior asset gains and losses, the Corporation expects to record $7 million less in income for pension and other postretirement benefits in 2007 than it did in 2006. The value of the qualified plan assets totaled $4.0 billion at December 31, 2006, an increase of $118 million over the prior year. The increase in the assumed discount rate along with the asset returns increased the funded status of the qualified plan, net of benefit obligations, by $287 million from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. For 2007, the Corporation does not expect to make cash contributions to its pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, both positive and negative, the Corporation recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered more likely than not. At December 31, 2006, the Corporation had a net deferred tax asset balance of $156 million, including deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards of $215 million, of which $7 million is subject to expiration in the years 2007 2011. In order to realize these deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, the Corporation needs taxable income of approximately $1.5 billion across multiple jurisdictions. The taxable income needed to realize the deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards that are subject to expiration between 2007 2011 is $87 million. In evaluating the ability to realize its deferred tax assets, the Corporation relied principally on forecasted taxable income using historical and projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences and the availability of tax planning strategies. The Corporation accrues for tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated, based on past experience. The tax contingency reserve is adjusted for changes in circumstances and additional uncertainties, such as significant amendments to existing tax law. At December 31, 2006, the Corporation had a tax contingency reserve for both domestic and foreign issues of $236 million. For additional information, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters Environmental Policies The Corporation is committed to the Guiding Principles of Responsible Care, to environmental, health and safety (EH&S) performance improvement and to public accountability. Dows EH&S management system (EMS), progress made towards the EH&S 2005 Goals, and introduction of new 2015 Sustainability Goals at all UCC sites minimizes environmental risks and impacts, both past and future. Dows EMS defines the who, what, when and how needed for the businesses to achieve the policies, requirements, performance objectives, leadership expectations and public commitments. EMS is also designed to minimize the long term cost of environmental protection and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Security aspects of EMS were strengthened to require Site Vulnerability Assessments to ensure appropriate safeguards to protect employees and physical assets in a post September 11th world. Furthermore, EMS is integrated into a company wide Management System for EH&S, Operations, Quality and Human Resources, including implementation of the global EH&S Work Process to improve EH&S performance and to ensure ongoing compliance worldwide. UCC first works to eliminate or minimize the generation of waste and emissions at the source through research, process design, plant operations and maintenance. Next, UCC finds ways to reuse and recycle materials. Finally, unusable or non recyclable hazardous waste is treated before disposal to eliminate or reduce the hazardous nature and volume of the waste. Treatment may include destruction by chemical, physical, biological or thermal means. Disposal of waste materials in landfills 13 is considered only after all other options have been thoroughly evaluated. UCC has specific requirements for waste that is transferred to non UCC facilities, including the periodic auditing of these facilities. In 2005, the next generation of Dows 10 year goals were developed, providing continuity to the first set of goals, while also addressing a broader set of challenges. The 2015 Sustainability Goals will set the standard for sustainability in the chemical industry by focusing on improvements in local corporate citizenship and product stewardship, and actively pursuing methods to reduce the Corporations environmental impact. Chemical Security Growing public and political attention has been placed on protecting U.S. critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern about the security of chemical production and distribution. The focus on security is not new to UCC and UCC continues to improve its security plans, placing emphasis on the safety of UCC communities and people by being prepared to meet risks at any level and to address both internal and external identifiable risks. UCCs security plans also are developed to avert interruptions of normal business work operations which could materially and adversely affect the Corporations results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. UCC is a Responsible Care company and adheres to the Responsible Care Security Code that requires all aspects of security including facility, transportation, and cyberspace be assessed and gaps addressed. Through global implementation of the Security Code, UCC has permanently heightened the level of security not just in the United States, but worldwide. Assessment and improvement costs are not considered material to the Corporations consolidated financial statements. UCC uses a risk based approach employing the U.S. Governments Sandia National Labs methodology to repeatedly assess the risks to sites, systems, and processes. UCC has expanded its comprehensive Distribution Risk Review process that had been in place for decades to address potential threats in all modes of transportation across its supply chain. To reduce vulnerabilities, UCC maintains security measures that meet or exceed regulatory and industry security standards in all areas in which UCC operates. UCC continually works to strengthen partnerships with local responders, law enforcement, and security agencies, and to enhance confidence in the integrity of its security and risk management program as well as strengthen its preparedness and response capabilities. UCC also works closely with its supply chain partners and strives to educate lawmakers, regulators and communities about its resolve and actions to date which are mitigating security and crisis threats. Climate Change There is growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) due to human activities continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting the climate. UCC takes global climate change very seriously and is committed to reducing its GHG intensity (pounds of GHG per pound of product), developing climate friendly products and processes and, over the longer term, implementing technology solutions to achieve even greater climate change improvements. Environmental Remediation UCC accrues the costs of remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on current law and existing technologies. The nature of such remediation includes, for example, the management of soil and groundwater contamination and the closure of contaminated landfills and other waste management facilities. In the case of landfills and other active waste management facilities, UCC recognizes the costs over the useful life of the facility. The policies adopted to properly reflect the monetary impacts of environmental matters are discussed in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements. To assess the impact on the consolidated financial statements, environmental experts review currently available facts to evaluate the probability and scope of potential liabilities. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and evolving technologies. These liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. The Corporation had an accrued liability of $52 million at December 31, 2006, compared with $53 million at December 31, 2005, related to the remediation of current or former UCC owned sites. In addition to current and former UCC owned sites, under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws (hereafter referred to collectively as Superfund Law), UCC is liable for remediation of other hazardous waste sites where UCC allegedly disposed of, or arranged for the treatment or disposal of, hazardous substances. UCC readily cooperates in the remediation of these sites where the Corporations liability is clear, thereby minimizing legal and administrative costs. Because Superfund Law imposes joint and several liability upon each party at a site, UCC has evaluated its potential liability in light of the number of other companies that also have been named potentially responsible parties (PRPs) at each site, the estimated apportionment of costs among all PRPs, and the financial ability and commitment of each to pay its expected share. Managements estimate of the Corporations remaining 14 liability for the remediation of Superfund sites was $25 million at December 31, 2006 and $34 million at December 31, 2005, which has been accrued, although the ultimate cost with respect to these sites could exceed that amount. The Corporation has not recorded any third party recovery related to these sites as a receivable. Information regarding environmental sites is provided below: Environmental Sites UCC owned Sites(1) Superfund Sites(2) 2006 2005 2006 2005 Number of sites at January 1 33 29 47 44 Sites added during year 4 5 7 Sites closed during year (5 ) (4 ) Number of sites at December 31 33 33 47 47 (1) UCC owned sites are sites currently or formerly owned by UCC, where remediation obligations are imposed (in the United States) by the Resource Conservation Recovery Act or analogous state law. (2) Superfund sites are sites, including sites not owned by UCC, where remediation obligations are imposed by Superfund Law. In total, the Corporations accrued liability for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs was $77 million at December 31, 2006, compared with $87 million at the end of 2005. This is managements best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Corporation has accrued liabilities, although the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to twice that amount. It is the opinion of management that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of those disclosed will have a material adverse impact on the Corporations consolidated financial statements. The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to environmental remediation totaled $23 million in 2006, $19 million in 2005 and $18 million in 2004. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were $25 million in 2006, $26 million in 2005 and $26 million in 2004. Asbestos Related Matters Introduction The Corporation is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past three decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that UCC sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos containing products located on UCCs premises, and UCCs responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. (Amchem). In many cases, plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any compensable loss as a result of such exposure, or that injuries incurred in fact resulted from exposure to the Corporations products. Influenced by the bankruptcy filings of numerous defendants in asbestos related litigation and the prospects of various forms of state and national legislative reform, the rate at which plaintiffs filed asbestos related suits against various companies, including the Corporation and Amchem, increased in 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003. Since then, the rate of filing has significantly abated. The Corporation expects more asbestos related suits to be filed against it and Amchem in the future, and will aggressively defend or reasonably resolve, as appropriate, both pending and future claims. The table below provides information regarding asbestos related claims filed against the Corporation and Amchem: 2006 2005 2004 Claims unresolved at January 1 146,325 203,416 193,891 Claims filed 16,386 34,394 58,240 Claims settled, dismissed or otherwise resolved (50,824 ) (91,485 ) (48,715 ) Claims unresolved at December 31 111,887 146,325 203,416 Claimants with claims against both UCC and Amchem 38,529 48,647 73,587 Individual claimants at December 31 73,358 97,678 129,829 Plaintiffs lawyers often sue dozens or even hundreds of defendants in individual lawsuits on behalf of hundreds or even thousands of claimants. As a result, the damages alleged are not expressly identified as to UCC, Amchem or any other 15 particular defendant, even when specific damages are alleged with respect to a specific disease or injury. In fact, there are no personal injury cases in which only the Corporation and or Amchem are the sole named defendants. For these reasons and based upon the Corporations litigation and settlement experience, the Corporation does not consider the damages alleged against it and Amchem to be a meaningful factor in its determination of any potential asbestos liability. Estimating the Liability Based on a study completed by Analysis, Research & Planning Corporation (ARPC) in January 2003, the Corporation increased its December 31, 2002 asbestos related liability for pending and future claims for the 15 year period ending in 2017 to $2.2 billion, excluding future defense and processing costs. Since then, the Corporation has compared current asbestos claim and resolution activity to the results of the most recent ARPC study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the accrual continues to be appropriate. In November 2004, the Corporation requested ARPC to review the Corporations historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2003 study. In January 2005, ARPC provided the Corporation with a report summarizing the results of its study. At December 31, 2004, the recorded asbestos related liability for pending and future claims was $1.6 billion. Based on the low end of the range in the January 2005 study, the recorded asbestos related liability for pending and future claims at December 31, 2004 would be sufficient to resolve asbestos related claims against UCC and Amchem into 2019. As in its January 2003 study, ARPC did provide estimates for a longer period of time in its January 2005 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time. In November 2005, the Corporation requested ARPC to review the Corporations 2005 asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2005 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2005. In January 2006, ARPC stated that an update of its study would not provide a more likely estimate of future events than the estimate reflected in its study of the previous year and, therefore, the estimate in that study remained applicable. Based on the Corporations own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity and ARPCs response, the Corporation determined that no change to the accrual was required. At December 31, 2005, the recorded asbestos related liability for pending and future claims was $1.5 billion. In November 2006, the Corporation requested ARPC to review the Corporations historical asbestos claim and resolution activity and determine the appropriateness of updating its January 2005 study. In response to that request, ARPC reviewed and analyzed data through October 31, 2006 and concluded that the experience from 2004 through 2006 was sufficient for the purpose of forecasting future filings and values of asbestos claims filed against UCC and Amchem, and could be used in place of previous assumptions to update its January 2005 study. The resulting study, completed by ARPC in December 2006, stated that the undiscounted cost of resolving pending and future asbestos related claims against UCC and Amchem, excluding future defense and processing costs, through 2021 was estimated to be between approximately $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion. As in its January 2005 study, ARPC provided estimates for a longer period of time in its December 2006 study, but also reaffirmed its prior advice that forecasts for shorter periods of time are more accurate than those for longer periods of time. Based on ARPCs December 2006 study and the Corporations own review of the asbestos claim and resolution activity, the Corporation decreased its asbestos related liability for pending and future claims to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2006 which will now cover the 15 year period ending in 2021 (excluding future defense and processing costs). The reduction was $177 million and is shown as Asbestos related credit in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2006, approximately 25 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 75 percent related to future claims. At December 31, 2005, approximately 39 percent of the recorded liability related to pending claims and approximately 61 percent related to future claims. Defense and Resolution Costs The following table provides information regarding defense and resolution costs related to asbestos related claims filed against the Corporation and Amchem: Defense and Resolution Costs In millions 2006 2005 2004 Aggregate Costs to Date as of Dec. 31, 2006 Defense costs $ 62 $ 75 $ 86 $ 481 Resolution costs $ 117 $ 139 $ 300 $ 1,182 16 The average resolution payment per asbestos claimant and the rate of new claim filings has fluctuated both up and down since the beginning of 2001. Union Carbides management expects such fluctuations to continue in the future based upon a number of factors, including the number and type of claims settled in a particular period, the jurisdictions in which such claims arose, and the extent to which any proposed legislative reform related to asbestos litigation is being considered. The Corporation expenses defense costs as incurred. The pretax impact for defense and resolution costs, net of insurance, was $45 million in 2006, $75 million in 2005 and $82 million in 2004, and was reflected in Cost of sales. Insurance Receivables At December 31, 2002, the Corporation increased the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability to $1.35 billion, substantially exhausting its asbestos product liability coverage. The insurance receivable related to the asbestos liability was determined after a thorough review of applicable insurance policies and the 1985 Wellington Agreement, to which the Corporation and many of its liability insurers are signatory parties, as well as other insurance settlements, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, and taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers. The Wellington Agreement and other agreements with insurers are designed to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of the Corporations insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise. In September 2003, the Corporation filed a comprehensive insurance coverage case, now proceeding in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, seeking to confirm its rights to insurance for various asbestos claims and to facilitate an orderly and timely collection of insurance proceeds. This lawsuit was filed against insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and or do not otherwise have agreements in place with the Corporation regarding their asbestos related insurance coverage, in order to facilitate an orderly resolution and collection of such insurance policies and to resolve issues that the insurance carriers may raise. Although the lawsuit is continuing, through the end of 2006, the Corporation reached settlements with several of the carriers involved in this litigation. The Corporations receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability was $495 million at December 31, 2006 and $535 million at December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2006, all of the receivable for insurance recoveries ($398 million at December 31, 2005) was related to insurers that are not signatories to the Wellington Agreement and or do not otherwise have agreements in place regarding their asbestos related insurance coverage. In addition to the receivable for insurance recoveries related to its asbestos liability, the Corporation had receivables for defense and resolution costs submitted to insurance carriers for reimbursement as follows: Receivables for Costs Submitted to Insurance Carriers at December 31 In millions 2006 2005 Receivables for defense costs $ 34 $ 73 Receivables for resolution costs 266 327 Total $ 300 $ 400 After a review of its insurance policies, with due consideration given to applicable deductibles, retentions and policy limits, after taking into account the solvency and historical payment experience of various insurance carriers; existing insurance settlements; and the advice of outside counsel with respect to the applicable insurance coverage law relating to the terms and conditions of its insurance policies, the Corporation continues to believe that its recorded receivable for insurance recoveries from all insurance carriers is probable of collection. Summary The amounts recorded for the asbestos related liability and related insurance receivable described above were based upon current, known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed and or received each year, the average cost of disposing of each such claim, coverage issues among insurers, and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than those projected or those recorded. Because of the uncertainties described above, management cannot estimate the full range of the cost of resolving pending and future asbestos related claims facing the Corporation and Amchem. Management believes that it is reasonably possible that the cost of disposing of the Corporations asbestos related claims, including future defense costs, could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the consolidated financial position of the Corporation. 17 Union Carbide Corporation and Subsidiaries Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk UCCs business operations give rise to market risk exposure due to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. To manage such risks effectively, the Corporation can enter into hedging transactions, pursuant to established guidelines and policies, which enable it to mitigate the adverse effects of financial market risk. The Corporation does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. As a result of investments, production facilities and other operations on a global basis, the Corporation has assets, liabilities and cash flows in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary objective of the Corporations foreign exchange risk management is to optimize the U.S. dollar value of net assets and cash flows, keeping the adverse impact of currency movements to a minimum. To achieve this objective, the Corporation will hedge, when appropriate, on a net exposure basis using foreign currency forward contracts, over the counter option contracts, cross currency swaps and nonderivative instruments in foreign currencies. Main exposures are related to assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in the currencies of Europe, Asia Pacific and Canada. The main objective of interest rate risk management is to reduce the total funding cost to the Corporation and to alter the interest rate exposure to the desired risk profile. The Corporations primary exposure is to the U.S. dollar yield curve. UCC will use interest rate swaps and swaptions, when appropriate, to accomplish this objective. UCC uses value at risk (VAR), stress testing and scenario analysis for risk measurement and control purposes. VAR estimates the potential gain or loss in fair market values, given a certain move in prices over a certain period of time, using specified confidence levels. On an ongoing basis, the Corporation estimates the maximum gain or loss that could arise in one day, given a two standard deviation move in the respective price levels. These amounts are relatively insignificant in comparison to the size of the equity of the Corporation. The VAR methodology used by UCC is based primarily on the variance/covariance statistical model. The year end VAR and average daily VAR for 2006 and 2005 are shown below: Total Daily VAR at December 31* 2006 2005 In millions Year end Average Year end Average Interest rate $ 7 $ 7 $ 8 $ 11 *Using a 95 percent confidence level See Notes G and M to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further disclosure regarding market risk. 18 
</SECTION>
