<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: MCDATA CORP
CIK: 0000731502
SIC: 3669
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20060131
FILE DATE: 20060426
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section of the Annual Report on Form 10 K discusses the comparative year over year results of our operations, our liquidity and financial condition, our risk management practices and our critical accounting policies. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included in sections F 1 through F 55 of this document. Overview McDATA acquired CNT on June 1, 2005, and eight months of CNTs results are included in the twelve months ended January 31, 2006. Therefore, the acquisition of CNT has significantly affected the year over year comparisons in the results of operations. Revenue Growth and Competitive Industry Our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006, represented a 54% increase over fiscal year 2004 and a 47% increase from fiscal year 2003. This year over year revenue increase is the result of the CNT acquisition resulting in higher sales of hardware and service products. The increase in product revenue was driven by higher sales of directors, extension products and software products, SAN routers and third party products. The market for our SAN and WAN products and solutions remains competitive with (a) the entrance of competitors into our market, (b) pricing pressures resulting from an increase in competitive products and solutions, (c) challenges to our direct assist sales model, and (d) anticipated competition from our own storage OEM partners through their partnerships with competitors to jointly sell complementary products. These market conditions present unique risks and uncertainties in a number of respects. Management believes the competitive market environment defines the overall performance of the Company and provides a specific context to further analyze revenues, operating expenses and liquidity. In particular, we anticipate continued elongated sales cycles and downward pricing pressures that could negatively impact our revenue growth rate. Moreover, revenue growth is dependent on the success of our new products, including the Intrepid 10000 Director and higher performance switch products. Our OEM and reseller partners may purchase non configured products ahead of end user demand, which could reduce subsequent purchases by those partners. Variations in the buying patterns of our customers would limit our ability to assemble, test and ship orders received in the last weeks and days of each quarter and could cause fluctuations in our quarterly revenue or earnings. Moreover, an unexpected decline in revenue without a corresponding and timely reduction in expenses could intensify the impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Management believes the trend of revenue, controlling of operating expense and the related competitive environment define the overall performance of the Company and provide a specific context to further analyze the financial results of the Company. Merger and Acquisitions On June 1, 2005, the Company consummated the merger transaction between Condor Acquisition, Inc. (Merger Sub), a wholly owned subsidiary of McDATA Corporation, and CNT (the Merger) pursuant to the terms and conditions of the previously filed Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended (the Merger Agreement). The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement were adopted and approved at a special meeting of the stockholders of the Company on May 24, 2005, and at a special meeting of the shareholders of CNT on May 24, 2005. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub was merged with and into CNT with CNT being the surviving corporation as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. In connection with the filing of the Articles of Merger, CNTs name was changed to McDATA Services Corporation. Upon completion of the merger, CNT shareholders received 1.3 shares of McDATA Class A common stock for each share of CNT common stock then held by them, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares. The boards of directors of McDATA and CNT believed that the proposed merger would create a combined company that would establish a leading position in enterprise storage networking, encompassing world class products, services and software. The merger combined the products, talent and expertise of two respected names in storage networking and is expected to accelerate McDATAs Global Enterprise Data Center Initiative (GEDI) to deploy a broadened tiered network infrastructure. As of January 31, 2006, we have not finalized our purchase price allocation. The primary areas of the purchase price 28 Table of Contents allocation that are not yet finalized relate to collectibility of receivables, severance and relocation benefits, office closure costs, contract termination costs, certain legal matters, income and non income based taxes, and residual goodwill. With the finalization of the purchase price allocation, additional adjustments to deferred taxes may be made. Any change in the estimated fair value of the net assets of CNT during the purchase price allocation period (generally within one year of the acquisition date) will change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill. The actual allocation of purchase cost and its effect on results of operations may differ significantly from the proforma operating results included herein. Restructuring Activities In connection with the Companys merger with CNT, management approved and initiated a plan of integration which outlined the actions necessary to combine its existing business and resources with those of CNT. An important part of this plan is the integration of the companies products and customer bases, elimination of duplicative activities, and the reduction of our overall cost structure. We recorded approximately $11.1 million of restructuring charges for the year end January 31, 2006 based on this integration plan. We have completed significant milestones of our integration process, including selling the Lumberton manufacturing operations and eliminating more than 500 redundant jobs. We have substantially completed the CNT integration activities as of January 31, 2006. After the acquisition of CNT, we notified redundant employees that their employment would be terminated and provided them with a detailed explanation of their benefits, which included separation pay as well as retention pay for transitional employees. Total termination benefits charged to restructuring costs in results of operations as a result of the integration plan was $3.7 million through January 31, 2006. Retention pay offered to all transitional employees is contingent upon the employee rendering future service through a transition period and has no relationship to the employees past service; therefore, these benefits were recognized as a restructuring cost ratably over the transition period. A total of $0.6 million has been recognized as a restructuring cost through January 31, 2006. No further termination or retention benefits are expected to be incurred as a result of the CNT integration plan. Prior to the acquisition, McDATA and CNT each sold a competing Director class product McDATAs is branded the Intrepid 10000 and CNTs is the UltraNet Multi Service Director (UMD). In order to eliminate this redundancy and integrate the two companys product offerings, the Company decided to withdraw the UMD from the market, and continue to sell the Intrepid 10000 product in the future. As a result, McDATA offered, and certain existing UMD customers accepted, an exchange program which allowed customers to trade in their UMD for a comparable Intrepid 10000 at no cost to them. The Company also offered customers up to 20 hours of professional consulting service to assist with the migration to the new product. The net cost of this program of $6.8 million was recorded as a restructuring cost which represents the difference between the estimated costs of the Intrepid 10000s to be installed over the estimated salvage value of the UMDs to be returned. Changes to our estimated salvage values, costs and quantities of the Intrepid 10000s will result in a restructuring charge or benefit in future periods. Consulting costs to be incurred in connection with this program were not accrued because they could not be reasonably estimated. They will be recorded as restructuring costs in future periods as they are incurred. In January 2004, we announced that we were taking certain cost improvement actions, which included a workforce reduction and facility consolidation. Total restructuring costs of $3.5 million consist of severance and benefit charges, facility closure expenses, and other charges. Severance and benefit charges of $2.3 million include severance and related employee termination costs associated with the reduction of the Companys workforce by 92 employees, or approximately 9%. Facility closure charges of $1.1 million relate to losses for a leased engineering facility in Toronto, Canada. In August 2004, the Company entered into agreements to sublease this facility to an unrelated third party through the Companys remaining original lease term. In connection with these agreements, the Company made a one time payment of approximately $1.0 million to satisfy all of its outstanding lease commitments for this facility. These payments were applied against the restructuring reserve accrual and approximate the original estimates made by the Company. All planned activities under this plan were completed and all remaining accrued liabilities were paid or settled. Revenue Reclassification During fiscal 2005, we began presenting a reformatted classification of revenue to provide further visibility into our product lines and to emphasize our software growth strategy. All prior periods have been reclassified to reflect the new classification. Our revenue comprises the following product categories: Product Revenue revenue from the sales of our director and switch products (including Eclipse SAN routers) 29 Table of Contents Software and Related Maintenance Revenue revenue from the sales of our software licenses and related maintenance agreements. Our software maintenance agreements consist of our standard post contract customer support (PCS) that are sold in conjunction with the initial sales of the software licenses. These services include customer support that provides bug fixes, upgrades and telephone support. Service Revenue revenue from our professional service offerings as well as services provided under extended maintenance and upgraded warranty contracts for our hardware products. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain financial data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenues. Years Ended January 31, 2006 2005 2004 Total revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Total cost of revenue 50.3 44.1 42.3 Gross profit 49.7 55.9 57.7 Operating expenses: Research and development 18.2 22.9 21.2 Selling and marketing 21.8 25.3 22.9 General and administrative 5.7 6.4 7.2 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 6.1 5.7 2.1 Acquired in process research & development and other acquisition related costs 2.7 Amortization of deferred compensation 1.0 1.4 2.9 Restructuring charges 1.9 0.3 0.6 Total operating expenses 54.7 62.0 59.6 Loss from operations (5.0 ) (6.1 ) (1.9 ) Interest and other income, net .1 1.4 1.0 Loss before income taxes and equity in loss of affiliated company (4.9 ) (4.7 ) (0.9 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 0.1 0.1 9.2 Loss before equity in net loss of affiliated company (5.0 ) (4.8 ) (10.1 ) Equity in net loss of affiliated company (0.3 ) (0.2 ) Net loss (5.0 )% (5.1 )% (10.3 )% Revenues Years Ended January 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Product revenue $ 446.2 $ 320.0 $ 362.5 Software and related maintenance revenue(1) 77.2 59.4 44.7 Service revenue 91.0 20.3 11.7 Total revenue $ 614.4 $ 399.7 $ 418.9 (1) Included in Product Revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our total revenue for the year ended January 31, 2006, was $614.4 million, which represented a 54% increase over fiscal year 2004 and a 47% increase from fiscal year 2003. Although we continue to see solid end user interest for our products and solutions, the on going competitive marketplace is expected to create a challenging sales environment for the foreseeable future. Given the nature of competitors and products in our industry, we anticipate continued long sales cycles and price declines that could negatively impact our revenue growth rate. 30 Table of Contents Product Product revenue of $446.2 million for fiscal year 2005 was a $126.2 million, or 39%, increase over fiscal year 2004 and an $83.7 million, or 23%, increase from fiscal year 2003. This year over year revenue increase in product revenue reflects eight months of results with CNT in 2005 and a 32% increase in estimated ports sold offset by a 21% decrease in estimated average sales prices. The increase in sales of hardware ports reflects continued growth of Director products. With respect to Directors, we expect the number of ports shipped to fluctuate depending on the demand for our existing and newly introduced products including the timing of product introductions by our OEM customers. Ongoing competition and macroeconomic factors could continue to provide downward pricing pressures that could impact our revenue growth and related margins. Software and related maintenance revenue of $77.2 million for fiscal year 2005 increased $17.8 million, or 30%, over fiscal year 2004 and increased $32.5 million, or 73%, from fiscal year 2003. This revenue growth is due to higher sales of our embedded software products that attach to the sale of our directors and switches, higher sales of Eclipse IPS software and higher maintenance revenue that attaches to the sale of software licenses. A significant portion of our software revenue is generated from sales of our Enterprise Fabric Connectivity Manager, or EFCM, and Element Manager software products. Service Service revenue includes professional service revenue, break/fix maintenance support, network monitoring services, and revenue earned from our upgraded warranty and extended maintenance contracts on our hardware products. Service revenue for fiscal year 2005 was $91.0 million. This represents a $70.7 million, or 348%, increase from fiscal 2004 and a $79.3 million, or 678%, increase from fiscal 2003. These increases are due primarily to the addition of CNTs services businesses. Channels The following table presents supplemental data for McDATA revenue channels. A significant portion of revenue is concentrated with the largest storage OEMs, EMC, IBM and HDS. Other major storage and system vendors, including Dell, HP and Sun, offer McDATA solutions to their customers. In addition to storage and system vendors, the Company has relationships with many resellers, distributors and systems integrators, and sells products directly to end customers. Twelve Months Ended January 31, 2006 2005 2004 EMC 31 % 47 % 56 % IBM 26 % 25 % 21 % HDS 9 % 9 % 10 % Other customers 34 % 19 % 13 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Expanding our reseller, distributor and system integrator channels into commercial and vertical markets will be a strategic focus for us as we continue to grow our business. However, the level of sales to any single customer may vary and the loss of any one significant customer, or a decrease in the level of sales to any significant or group of significant customers, could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Given the dependencies on our limited number of OEM resellers combined with an increasingly competitive environment, we may experience continued adverse price pressures at critical times near the end of the fiscal quarters. In addition, the fiscal quarters for many of our largest OEM and reseller partners begin during the last month of our fiscal quarter. While we do not have complete insight into the purchasing processes of our OEM and reseller partners, we believe that such partners may purchase some amount of our non configured product in anticipation of end user customer demand that will be realized in the later portion of their fiscal quarter. Large end of quarter purchases by our partners could result in lower future revenues or earnings if market demand as forecasted by our partners is not met. Domestic and international revenue was approximately 58% and 42% of our total revenue, respectively, for fiscal 2005. For fiscal 2004, domestic and international revenue was approximately 59% and 41% of our total revenue, respectively. For fiscal 2003, domestic and international revenue was 64% and 36%, respectively. Revenues are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customers to which our products are shipped. International revenues primarily consist of sales to 31 Table of Contents customers in Western Europe and the greater Asia Pacific region. Included in domestic revenues are sales to certain OEM customers who take possession of our products domestically and then distribute these products to their international customers. In addition, included in revenues from Western Europe are sales to certain OEM customers who take possession of our products in distribution centers designated for international bound product and then distribute these products among various international regions. Our mix of international and domestic revenue can, therefore, vary depending on the relative mix of sales to certain OEM customers. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see the Revenue Recognition section of the Critical Accounting Policies in Note 2. Gross Margin Product Product gross margin percentages were 53%, 58% and 60% for the twelve months ended January 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Costs of goods sold consists of product costs, which are generally variable, and manufacturing operating costs, which include both variable and fixed expenses. The decline in product margins for the twelve months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the same period ending 2005 was principally due to discounting that we offered during the market introduction phase for our Intrepid 10000 director product along with the added costs associated with lower start up production volumes as well as general price declines due to the competitive nature of the industry. Gross margins were adversely affected by $5.1 million of provisions for underutilization of certain manufacturing facilities, unusual excess inventory reserve provisions and unusual warranty expenses that were recognized throughout the year ended January 31, 2006. In anticipation of the competitive driven and natural decline in selling prices, we continue to drive cost advantages through our engineering and manufacturing processes. The terms of our agreement with Solectron will allow for a reduction of manufacturing costs once Solectron moves Ultranet extension and Edge product processes to their other facilities from Lumberton, New Jersey. This move is expected to occur in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Service Service gross margin percentages were 34%, 14% and (30) % for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Gross margins increased in 2005 due to the acquisition of CNTs professional consulting and maintenance service business . In accordance with EITF 01 3, Accounting in a Purchase Business Combination for Deferred Revenue of an Aquiree, the deferred revenue liability assumed in the acquisition of CNT was adjusted to fair value, which is the sum of direct and incremental costs of fulfilling the maintenance obligation plus a normal profit margin on those fulfillment costs. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligation were based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services by CNT, and the normal profit margin was based on analysis of comparable IT service companies. A $14.8 million decrease in deferred revenue acquired from CNT was recorded as a result of this adjustment to fair value. As the related maintenance services are performed and the revenue recognized, the adjustment will result in a $14.8 million reduction in revenues and gross profit margin for the combined company as compared to what would otherwise have been recognized by CNT and McDATA as a separate companies . For fiscal 2005, this adjustment was $8.9 million, which reduced the fiscal year 2005 gross margin by approximately 390 basis points. The expected deferred revenue adjustments for fiscal 2006 and 2007 are approximately $3.7 million and $2.2 million, respectively. CNTs services historically averaged approximately 40% gross margin. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in engineering and research and development activities; fees paid to consultants and outside service providers; nonrecurring engineering charges; prototyping expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products; depreciation related to engineering and other test equipment; and IT and facilities expenses. Research and development expenses are applicable to the Companys product segment. Research and development expenses increased to $111.7 million for fiscal year 2005, compared with $91.5 million for fiscal year 2004 and $88.8 million for fiscal year 2003. These increases in research and development expense reflect a 10% increase in personnel in fiscal 2005 due to the CNT acquisition, increased depreciation expense for equipment, spending related to outsourced services and product development and testing. Research and development expenses also reflect the net impact of capitalized software development costs which 32 Table of Contents reduce research and development expenses when recorded on the balance sheet and amortized against cost of goods sold upon introduction of the software product. For the twelve months ended January 31, 2006, capitalized software costs were $20.3 million as compared to $18.5 million for the same period during fiscal 2004. This $1.8 million increase in research and development expense partially offsets the increases as discussed above for the twelve months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. These costs vary in conjunction with stages of development of our application software, our new director and switch products and related firmware software. Selling and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and sales; costs associated with promotional and travel expenses; and IT and facilities expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased to $133.9 million for fiscal year 2005 compared with $101.3 million and $95.8 million for fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. These increases were primarily due to a 30% increase in personnel over prior year as a result of the Merger and an increased level of sales. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for corporate executives, finance, human resources and investor relations, as well as accounting and professional fees, corporate legal expenses, other corporate expenses, and IT and facilities expenses. General and administrative expenses increased to $35.1 million for fiscal year 2005, compared to $25.6 million and $30.2 million for fiscal year 2004 and 2003, respectively. These increases over prior year were attributable to increased personnel and severance costs and increased facility costs associated with the Merger. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets. Amortization of purchased intangible assets increased to $37.5 million for the fiscal year 2005 compared with $22.8 million and $9.2 million for fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. These increases are due to the increase of purchased intangibles acquired through the merger with CNT. These assets are being amortized on a straight line basis over a period of one to seven years. Acquired In Process Research and Development (IPR&D) and Other Acquisition related Costs. In connection with our equity investment in Aarohi and our acquisition of Nishan in September 2003, a portion of the respective purchase prices was allocated to IPR&D. This IPR&D was expensed at the time of purchase because technological feasibility had not been established and no future alternative use existed. The IPR&D charge for fiscal year 2003 totaled $11.4 million. Amortization of Deferred Compensation. We have recorded deferred compensation related to retention shares granted to Nishan and Sanera employees. In addition, certain CNT employees were issued retention grants of restricted stock. Upon completion of the CNT acquisition, these share converted into 1.3 shares of McDATA Class A common stock for each restricted share of CNT common stock owned. These shares vest over an 18 month period. We are amortizing all deferred compensation on a straight line basis over the vesting period of the applicable options and stock awards, resulting in amortization expense, net of forfeitures, of $6.2 million for the twelve months ended January 31, 2006, $5.7 million for fiscal 2004 and $ 12.7 million for fiscal 2003 (of which approximately $250,000, $180,000 and $739,000 was included in cost of revenue, respectively). Deferred compensation expense related to these awards will decrease as the awards become fully vested. Restructuring. After the acquisition of CNT, the Company notified redundant employees that their employment would be terminated and provided them with a detailed explanation of their benefits, which included separation pay as well as retention pay for transitional employees. Total termination benefits charged to restructuring costs in results of operations because of the integration plan was $3.7 million in total through January 31, 2006. Retention pay offered to all transitional employees is contingent upon the employee rendering future service through a transition period and has no relationship to the employees past service; therefore, these benefits were recognized as a restructuring cost ratably over the transition period. As of January 31, 2006, a total of $0.6 million has been recognized as a restructuring cost. No further retention benefits are expected to be incurred as a result of the CNT integration plan. During the quarter ended January 31, 2006, we initiated a reduction in workforce unrelated to the original CNT integration plan, incurring approximately $1.8 million in severance and benefit charges. All planned activities under this plan had been completed and the related liabilities were paid as of January 31, 2006. Prior to the acquisition, McDATA and CNT each sold a competing Director class product McDATAs is branded the Intrepid 10000 and CNTs is the UltraNet Multi Service Director (UMD). In order to eliminate this redundancy and integrate the two companys product offerings, the Company has decided to withdraw the UMD from the market, and continue to sell the Intrepid 10000 product. As a result, McDATA offered, and certain existing UMD customers have accepted, an exchange 33 Table of Contents program which allowed customers to trade in their UMD for a comparable Intrepid 10000 at no cost to them. The Company also offered customers up to 20 hours of professional consulting service to assist with the migration to the new product. The net cost of this program of $6.8 million was recorded as a restructuring cost during the quarter ended July 31, 2005, which represents the difference between the cost of the Intrepid 10000 to be installed over the salvage value of the UMDs to be returned. Consulting costs to be incurred in connection with this program were not accrued because they could not be reasonably estimated. They will be recorded as restructuring costs in future periods as they are incurred. Changes to the estimates of executing the currently approved plans of restructuring the pre merger McDATA organization will be reflected in our future results of operations. Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income consisted primarily of interest earnings on our cash, cash equivalents and various investment holdings. Interest income was $11.4 million, $6.6 million and $7.2 million for fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in income from the prior year level reflects an increase in interest rates as well as an increase in our cash balances. Fluctuations in our investment balances as well as fluctuations in interest rates could cause our investment income to vary between periods. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists primarily of the amortization of issuance costs related to the convertible subordinated debt, the convertible debt interest expense not offset by the interest rate swap interest income (discussed below), the amortization of the discount on the CNT debt, and interest expense related to capital leases and notes payable. Interest expense was $11.1 million for the year ended January 31, 2006, compared with $1.3 million and $2.8 million for fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. In order to manage interest expense on our convertible debt, we have two interest rate swap agreements in effect, which have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our convertible debt so that the interest payable on the majority of the debt effectively becomes variable. The rate on the interest rate swap agreement covering $155.3 million of the 2.25% Convertible Notes is based on the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) minus 152 basis points, is reset semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity on February 15, 2010, and was 2.51% as of January 31, 2006. The rate on the interest rate swap agreement covering $75 million of the 3.00% Convertible Notes is based on the three month LIBOR plus 69.5 basis points, is reset quarterly on January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31 of each year, and was 5.363% as of January 31, 2006. The variable rate on each of these swaps is partially offset by the fixed interest rate. Significant increases in interest rates in future periods could significantly increase interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes. The Company has recorded tax expense for fiscal 2005 even though our pre tax result is a loss. This is due primarily to taxes payable in foreign jurisdictions where the net taxable income will be positive. Substantially no tax benefit is realized currently for the book loss or available tax credits as the Company has established a valuation allowance against substantially all of its net deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance was established against substantially all of the acquired deferred tax assets of CNT Corporation and its subsidiaries pursuant to the acquisition of CNT during fiscal 2005. The amount of the valuation allowance relating to the acquired CNT deferred tax assets is $ 73.7 million. The valuation allowance related to acquired deferred tax assets in both the CNT acquisition and the Nishan acquisition resulted in an increase in goodwill. If any portion of the acquired deferred tax assets are utilized, the valuation allowance related to the acquired deferred tax assets that were utilized will be released, resulting in a decrease in goodwill by a like amount and we will record a charge to tax expense. We re evaluated the need for the valuation allowance during fiscal 2005 and concluded that a valuation allowance is still required with respect to substantially all of our net deferred tax assets. Generally, the effective tax rate is determined by the relationship between pre tax book income or loss and certain items that are reported differently between the financial statements and the tax return. For fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, the tax rate is favorably impacted primarily by the deductibility of costs associated with our convertible subordinated debt, the extraterritorial income exclusion on qualifying exports and the research tax credit. The tax rate is unfavorably impacted primarily by the permanent loss in value of amortized deferred compensation and the net increase in our valuation allowance. For fiscal 2004, the tax rate is also unfavorably impacted by the write off of the IPR&D related to our investment in Aarohi. We are subject to audit by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. These audits may result in additional tax liabilities. We account for such contingent liabilities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, 34 Table of Contents Accounting for Contingencies, (SFAS No. 5), and believe that we have appropriately provided for taxes for all years. Several factors drive the calculation of our tax reserves including (i) the expiration of statutes of limitations, (ii) changes in tax law and regulations, and (iii) settlements with tax authorities. The occurrence of any of these events may result in adjustments to our reserves that could impact our reported financial results. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006, we released reserves of approximately $1.4 million due to the expiration of state statutes of limitation and approximately $1.6 million pursuant to an updated analysis of intercompany pricing. During fiscal 2005, the Internal Revenue Service completed an audit of the Companys US income tax returns for 2000, 2001 and 2002. An audit of these years was mandated by the procedures for Joint Committee cases due to the carry back of tax losses from the 2001 and 2002 tax years to 2000. The result of the audit was a nominal net benefit to the Company, increasing the amount of net operating loss carry forwards. Liquidity and Capital Resources At January 31, 2006, cash and cash equivalents, short and long term investments were approximately $352.8 million compared to approximately $310.4 million as of January 31, 2005. The January 31, 2006 balance includes approximately $10.7 million of restricted cash, classified as long term, that we are required to maintain in relation to the interest rate swaps we have executed in connection with our convertible debt. We invest excess cash predominantly in debt and equity instruments that are highly liquid, of high quality investment grade and predominantly have maturities of less than three years with the intent to make such funds readily available for operating purposes, including expansion of operations and potential acquisitions or other transactions. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, short term and long term investment balances, and cash expected to be generated from future operations will be sufficient to meet our capital and operating requirements at least through the next twelve months, including repayment of our $124.4 million debt due on February 2007, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development of new products and expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of new product introductions and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of our products and other market conditions. In summary, our cash flows were: Source (use) (in thousands) Years Ended January 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 14,489 $ 21,424 $ 61,060 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 66,600 62 (244,259 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (6,205 ) (7,280 ) 125,332 Cash provided by operating activities of $14.5 million in fiscal year 2005 primarily consists of our net loss adjusted for non cash charges (including depreciation, amortization, deferred compensation and inventory related charges) and changes in working capital and other activities. Working capital changes included accounts receivable, inventories, other current and non current assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and deferred revenue. Cash provided by operating activities of $21.4 million for 2004 primarily consists of our net loss adjusted for non cash charges (including depreciation, amortization, deferred compensation and inventory related charges) offset by approximately $26.9 million of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by operating activities of $61 million in 2003 consisted primarily of the net loss adjusted for non cash charges offset by approximately $6.5 of changes in working capital and other activities. Cash provided by investing activities of $66.6 million in fiscal 2005 consists of $47.3 million in cash recognized from the CNT acquisition, net of $6.9 million of acquisition costs, as well as $38.1 million in proceeds from investment sales and maturities (net of purchases), partially offset by $13.2 million of capital expenditures. Cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2004 of approximately $62,000 was primarily due to approximately $17 million of cash provided by investment sales and maturities (net of purchases) offset by approximately $16.9 million of capital expenditures. Cash used in investing activities in 2003 of approximately $244 million was primarily attributable to cash used in acquisitions and purchases of equity investments of $177.4 million, cash used to purchase (net of sales and maturities) investments in marketable equity securities during the year, and capital expenditures totaling approximately $18.0 million. 35 Table of Contents Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2005 of $6.2 million was primarily due to the stock repurchase program. Cash used by financings in 2004 of $7.3 million was primarily due to cash used to repurchase common stock under our stock buy back program and payments on notes payable and capital lease obligations, offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2003 of approximately $125 million was primarily due to proceeds from issuance of convertible subordinated notes of $172.5 million in principal amount, with proceeds of $167 million and proceeds from the issuance of stock related to our stock option and employee purchase plans of $5.8 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than facility and equipment leasing arrangements, we do not engage in off balance sheet financing activities. Ordinary Course Purchase and Sale Agreements During our normal course of business, we may enter into agreements with customers, resellers, OEMs, systems integrators, distributors and others. These agreements typically require us to indemnify the other party against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising for the use of our products. In addition, the majority of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. We evaluate and estimate losses from such indemnification under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, as interpreted by FASB Interpretation No. 45. To date, we have not incurred any material costs as a result of such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification and guarantees in our financial statements. Sale of Lumberton, New Jersey Manufacturing Operations As described in Note 5, on June 24, 2005 we entered into a series of agreements with Solectron in connection with the sale of manufacturing operations and transfer of assets related to its Lumberton, New Jersey production facility. As part of the Asset Purchase Agreement between the Company and Solectron, the Company has made a number of representations and has agreed to indemnify the buyer and hold them harmless from certain losses suffered in connection with their purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of the Lumberton facility. The more significant indemnifications relate to representations made by the Company as to the proper maintenance of the tangible assets purchased, compliance with the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) as it relates to benefit plans in which the transferred employees have participated prior to the sale, and the absence of undisclosed environmental issues or significant contracts. The term of the representations relating to undisclosed environmental issues is five years, with the term of the remaining representations being two years. Although, there are no maximum potential indemnification amounts stated in the agreement for these representations, based on facts currently available, management estimates the maximum potential amount of payments that could be required under these representations to be $5.3 million. However, it is managements judgment that the probability of the Company having to make any payments under any one of the representations ranges from 0% to 20%. In calculating the fair value of the Companys obligation under these representations, the maximum potential loss estimate was multiplied by the probability of each occurring. The resulting potential future cash flows were then discounted using a rate of 8%, resulting in the Company recognizing a liability of approximately $400,000 in accordance with FIN 45. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the risks involved, the liability balance will be maintained and reevaluated as needed, over the full term of the related indemnifications. Any future reversals of previous accrual amounts which were recorded during the purchase accounting period as an increase to goodwill will be recorded as a reduction to goodwill. Otherwise, any portion of the liability that is reversed in the future will be credited to operating results. SPX Tax Sharing Agreement Inrange Technologies Corporation (Inrange) is subject to a tax sharing agreement with SPX Corporation (SPX) relating to previous tax years when Inrange was part of the SPX consolidated tax group (the SPX Agreement). Inrange was acquired by CNT from SPX in May 2003. When CNT was acquired by McDATA, Inrange became an indirect subsidiary of McDATA. Pursuant to the SPX Agreement, if a taxing authority makes an adjustment to Inrange losses utilized in previous tax years by the SPX consolidated group, Inrange must compensate SPX for the lost tax benefits. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently examining tax returns filed by SPX for certain years that Inrange was included in the SPX consolidated return. At this time, we are not aware of any audit adjustments that would require Inrange to compensate SPX for lost tax benefits. 36 Table of Contents Commitments Purchase Commitments The Company has contracted with Sanmina SCI Systems, Inc. (SSCI), Solectron Corporation (Solectron) and others (collectively, Contract Manufacturers) for the manufacture of printed circuit boards and box build assembly and configuration for specific multi protocol directors and switches. The agreements require the Company to submit purchasing forecasts and place orders sixty calendar days in advance of delivery. At January 31, 2006, the Companys commitment with our Contract Manufacturers for purchases over the next sixty days totaled $75.3 million, and $18.6 million for commitments beyond 60 days. The Company may be liable for materials that the Contract Manufacturers purchase on McDATAs behalf if the Companys actual requirements do not meet or exceed its forecasts and those materials cannot be redirected to other uses. We may also be liable for materials that certain component suppliers or product manufacturers have produced or made available to us if our actual requirements do not meet or exceed minimums that we have committed to purchase. At January 31, 2006, the company had recorded approximately $6.3 million of purchase obligations that we believe is excess or obsolete and cannot be redirected to other uses. Management does not expect the remaining commitments under these agreements to have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Convertible Notes In February 2003, we sold $172.5 million of 2.25% convertible subordinated notes due February 15, 2010 (2.25% Notes). The 2.25% Notes are convertible into our Class A common stock at a conversion rate of 93.3986 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (aggregate of approximately 16.1 million shares) or $10.71 per share, subject to certain conversion adjustments. Upon a conversion, we may choose to deliver shares of our Class A common stock, or, in lieu of shares of our Class A common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of Class A common stock. We are required to pay interest on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning August 15, 2003. Debt issuance costs of $5.6 million are being amortized over the term of the 2.25% Notes. The amortization of debt issuance costs will accelerate upon early redemption or conversion of the Notes. The net proceeds remain available for general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Concurrent with the issuance of the 2.25% Notes, we entered into share option transactions using approximately $20.5 million of proceeds. As part of these share option transactions, we purchased options that cover approximately 16.1 million shares of Class A common stock, at a strike price of $10.71. We also sold options that cover approximately 16.9 million shares of Class A common stock, at a strike price of $15.08. The net cost of the share option transactions was recorded against additional paid in capital. These share option transactions are intended to give us the option to mitigate dilution as a result of the 2.25% Notes being converted to common shares up to the $15.08 price per common share and mitigate dilution if the share price exceeds $15.08 at that time. Should there be an early unwind of either of the share option transactions, the amount of cash or net shares potentially received or paid by us will be dependent on then existing overall market conditions, the stock price, the volatility of the stock, and the amount of time remaining until expiration of the options. On June 1, 2005, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the Company fully and unconditionally guaranteed the $124.4 million 3.00% convertible subordinated notes due February 15, 2007 previously issued by CNT (3.00% Notes), and became a co obligor on the 3.00% Notes with CNT and the 3.00% Notes became convertible into the Companys Class A stock at a price of approximately $14.75 per share (aggregate of approximately 8.4 million shares) at any time prior to maturity on February 15, 2007, all pursuant to the terms of the Supplemental Indenture. All other terms of the 3.00% Notes remained unchanged. The 3.00% Notes may be redeemed upon payment of the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and a make whole payment if the closing price of the Class A stock exceeds 175% of the conversion price for at least twenty (20) consecutive trading days within a period of thirty (30) consecutive trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date of the mailing of the redemption notice. The make whole payment represents additional interest payments that would be made if the 3.00% Notes were not redeemed prior to their due date. Interest is payable on February 15 and August 15 of each year while the 3.00% Notes are outstanding. Payment of the notes will also accelerate upon certain events of default. In order to manage interest expense on our convertible debt, we have two interest rate swap agreements in effect, which have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our convertible debt so that the interest payable on the majority of the debt effectively becomes variable. In July 2003, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement covering $155.3 million of the 2.25% Notes which is based on the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) minus 152 basis points. The rate on this swap agreement is reset semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year until maturity on February 15, 2010, and was 3.41% as of January 31, 2006. Prior to the Merger, CNT entered into an interest rate swap agreement covering $75 million of the 3.00% Notes which is based on the three month LIBOR plus 69.5 37 Table of Contents basis points. This rate is reset quarterly on January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31 of each year until maturity on February 15, 2007, and was 5.363% as of January 31, 2006. Increases in interest rates could significantly increase the interest expense we are obligated to pay under the interest rate swap agreements in future periods. The swaps were designated as a fair value hedge and, as such, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the gain or loss on the Notes attributable to the swaps, results in adjusting the carrying amount for changes in fair value. In situations when the hedge is not completely effective, we adjust our earnings for the difference between the changes in the fair values of the derivative and the Notes. We are also required to post collateral based on changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps. This collateral, in the form of restricted cash, was $10.7 million as of January 31, 2006 and $5.0 million as of January 31, 2005. Headquarters Lease Commitment On September 9, 2004, we entered into a triple net office lease with Ridge Parkway Associates, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, for the lease of office space at 11802 Ridge Parkway, Broomfield, Colorado (the New Premises). We moved our world headquarters location from 380 Interlocken Crescent, Broomfield, Colorado 80021 to the New Premises with the lease commencing in February of 2006. Our previous headquarters office lease expires at the end of April 2006. The term of the new lease is for 11 years (with two 5 year renewal options) and is at market lease rates that are substantially lower than we paid in the previous lease. The base annual lease rates per rentable square foot for the New Premises range from $0 in the first year to $14.15 in the last year of the lease, plus normal operating expenses. We began recognizing rent expense in July 2005 upon the start of the build out of the premises. The lease has customary terms and conditions. Since the lease agreement did not limit our total potential expenditures related to this project, we were deemed to be the accounting owner of the project, and therefore total project costs incurred to date by all parties had been reflected as Construction in progress leased assets, and as Non cash obligations for construction in progress lease facilities in the long term liability section of the balance sheet in the second and third quarter of fiscal 2005. We received the certificate of occupancy on January 31, 2006, and because the project is substantially complete, we derecognized the amounts in Construction in progress leased assets, and Non cash obligations for construction in progress lease facilities in the long term liability section of the accompanying balance sheet. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations (including interest expense) and commitments as of January 31, 2006 (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than 5 Years Convertible subordinated debt $ 296,850 $ $ 124,350 $ 172,500 $ Interest on convertible subordinated debt 21,321 7,612 9,747 3,962 Non cancelable operating leases 76,134 11,889 17,145 11,494 35,606 Non cancelable purchase agreements 93,901 82,401 7,667 3,833 Capital leases, including interest 7,074 3,542 3,532 Total contractual obligations $ 495,280 $ 105,444 $ 162,441 $ 191,789 $ 35,606 Inflation We believe that our revenue and results of operations have not been significantly impacted by inflation during the last three fiscal years. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. in Item 8 for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 38 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Inventories Inventories, which include material, labor, factory overhead and purchased finished goods, are stated using standard costs which approximate the lower of cost (first in, first out method) or market. We evaluate the need for reserves associated with obsolete, slow moving and non salable inventory by reviewing net realizable values on a quarterly basis. Our inventories does not include materials purchased and held by the Companys component subcontractors, as the Company does not own this inventory. Investments Our short and long term investments consist primarily of marketable debt and equity securities, all of which are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value. Fair values are determined using quoted market prices. Unrealized holding gains and losses are recorded, net of any tax effect, as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Securities with maturities of one year or less are classified as short term investments. Securities with remaining maturities longer than one year are classified as long term investments, with the exception of auction rate securities. These investments are highly liquid, variable rate debt securities. While the underlying security typically has a stated maturity of 20 to 30 years, the interest rate is reset through Dutch auctions that are held every 7, 28 or 35 days, creating a highly liquid, short term instrument. The securities trade at par and are callable at par on any interest payment due date at the option of the issuer and as such are classified as short term investments. Should the impairment of any of these securities become other than temporary, the adjusted cost basis of the investment will be reduced and the resulting loss recognized in the statement of operations in the period the other than temporary impairment is identified. Included in investment balances are certain derivatives used as economic hedges against positions held in certain marketable equity securities. Because these are ineffective hedges, unrealized gains and losses are charged in the period they occur. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying value of financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, approximate fair value due to their short maturities. Based upon borrowing rates currently available to us, with similar terms, the carrying values of the capital lease obligations approximate their fair values. The fair values of our investments and convertible debt are determined using quoted market prices for those securities. We recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measures those instruments at fair value, which is determined using quoted market prices. Interest Rate Swaps We have entered into two interest rate swaps to address interest rate market risk exposure. The interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, the gains and losses on the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in current earnings during the period of change in fair values. If the change in the value of the hedging instrument offsets the change in the value of the hedged item, the hedge is considered perfectly effective. The accounting for hedge effectiveness is measured at least quarterly based on the relative change in fair value between the derivative contract and the hedged item over time. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness, the amount by which the change in the value of the hedge does not exactly offset the change in the value of the hedged item, is recognized immediately in earnings. Our interest rate swaps qualify as perfectly effective fair value hedges. As such, there is no ineffective portion to the hedge recognized in earnings. Adjustments to the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements are recorded as either an other asset or long term liability. The differential to be paid or received under these agreements is accrued consistently with the terms of the agreements and is recognized in interest expense over the term of the related debt. The related amounts payable to or receivable from counterparties are included in accounts receivable or accrued liabilities. Long Lived Assets, Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets We evaluate the carrying value of long lived assets, excluding goodwill, at least annually for impairment or when events and circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For the year ended January 31, 2006, no such events or circumstances were identified. The carrying value of a long lived asset is considered impaired when the anticipated undiscounted cash flows from such asset (or asset group) are separately identifiable and less than the assets (or asset groups) carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long lived asset. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. For the years ended 2005 and 2003, we made no material adjustments to its long lived assets. During fiscal 2004, we identified the impairment of a customer relationship asset and retired a $2.2 million intangible asset related to the initial purchase of the Toronto operations in 1997. Goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization, but are subject to an impairment test at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that impairment might exist. We completed our annual impairment analysis of goodwill in the first quarter of 2005 and found no impairment. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, also requires that intangible assets with definite lives be amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment in 39 Table of Contents accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of. We are currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with finite lives over periods ranging from one to seven years. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when four basic criteria are met: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (b) products are delivered or services rendered, (c) the sales price is fixed or determinable and (d) collectibility is probable. Product Revenue Revenue from product sales to our resellers and end user customers is recognized when title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, generally at the time of shipment. Revenue from product sales to our OEMs and distributors is recognized when title and risk of loss transfer to the customer in accordance with the master agreement. With respect to revenue from our configured products, we generally recognize revenue on shipment when we ship directly to an end user. When we ship to an OEM or distributor we request evidence of sell through from our OEM and distributor partners prior to recognizing revenue. In situations where our OEM and distributor partners refuse to provide sell through information when requested, but all the criteria under SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition (SAB No. 104) have been met, we recognize revenue for such configured products. These configured products represent high value, customized solutions of directors, cabinets and various combinations of port cards ordered by our OEM and distributor partners as required by the end user. Non configured products and components, such as our switch products, UltraNet extension products, additional port cards, and FlexPort upgrades, are recognized as revenue when the criteria for SAB No. 104 (as discussed above) have been met, generally at time of shipment. Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, price protection, rebates, and other offerings that occur under sales programs established with the Companys OEMs, distributors and resellers. We accrue for estimated warranty costs at the time of revenue recognition based on its experience. Service Revenue Revenue from support or maintenance contracts is recognized ratably over the contractual period. Amounts invoiced to customers in excess of revenue recognized on these contracts are recorded as deferred revenue until all revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue from professional services is recognized when such services are performed. Software Revenue Revenue from software is comprised of software licensing and post contract customer maintenance and support. Software revenue is allocated to the license and support elements using vendor specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE). Revenue from software licenses is recognized when the four basic criteria above have been met. Revenue from post contract support and maintenance is recognized ratably over the term of the support contract, assuming the four basic criteria are met. The Company has software embedded in some of its products that is considered more than incidental to the product and represents a separate unit of accounting as defined by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 97 2 Software Revenue Recognition (SOP 97 2). Multiple Elements We enter into certain arrangements where we are obligated to deliver multiple products and or services. In transactions that include multiple products, services and or software, in most cases the Company allocates the revenue to each element based upon their VSOE of the fair value of the element, with any remaining elements allocated using the residual method. VSOE of the fair value for an element is based upon the price charged when the element is sold separately. Revenue allocated to each element is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria is met for each element. Deferred Revenue Total deferred revenue consists primarily of unearned revenue from our customer support or maintenance contracts on our software and hardware products. These contracts are billed and collected either upfront or annually at the beginning of each service period. We recognize revenue from these contracts ratably over the contractual period, generally one to three years. Although certain contracts are cancellable at the customers discretion, we reclassified certain deferred revenue amounts acquired in the purchase of CNT from short to long term based on our analysis of the future periods over which this revenue will be recognized. The remaining portion of the deferred revenue represents deferred revenue related to billings and collections for which one or more of the four basic criteria under SAB No. 104 and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 97 2, as amended, have not been met. These balances are all classified as short term on the balance sheet as all four criteria have 40 Table of Contents historically been met in less than twelve months. Software Development Costs We capitalize eligible computer software development costs upon the establishment of technological feasibility, which it has defined as completion of designing, coding and testing activities or the completion of a working model as defined by our software and hardware engineering development processes. Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility are expensed to research and development. The establishment of technological feasibility and the ongoing assessment of recoverability of capitalized software development costs require considerable judgment by management with respect to certain external factors, including, but not limited to, anticipated future revenues, estimated economic life and changes in software and hardware technologies. Upon the general release of the software product to customers, capitalization ceases and such costs are amortized (using the straight line method) on a product by product basis over the estimated life, which is generally one to three years. Capitalized software costs and accumulated amortization included in other assets at January 31, 2006, were approximately $53.9 million and $23.1 million, respectively. Capitalized software costs and accumulated amortization included in other assets at January 31, 2005, were approximately $33.6 million and $11.0 million, respectively. Amortization expense of capitalized software for fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003 was approximately $12.1 million, $3.7 million and $5.5 million, respectively. Restructuring Charges We account for costs, including termination benefits and facility closure costs, associated with restructuring activities in accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities which requires that the liability for costs associated with exit or disposal of activities be recognized when the liability is incurred. See Note 5 for discussion of restructuring activities. Income Taxes We estimate a provision for income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We estimate our actual current tax exposure including the risks associated with tax audits and the temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which we include within our balance sheet. We evaluate the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent we believe that recovery is not more likely than expiration of the deferred benefit, we establish a valuation allowance ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk We are exposed to market risk, primarily from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and credit risks. Interest Rate Risk We earn interest income on both our cash and cash equivalents and our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio generally consists of readily marketable investment grade debt securities of various issuers and maturities ranging primarily from overnight to three years. All investments are denominated in U.S. dollars and are classified as available for sale. These instruments are not leveraged, and are not held for trading purposes. As interest rates change, the amount of realized and unrealized gain or loss on these securities will change. We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of January 31, 2006, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant. The discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at January 31, 2006. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair values of our investment instruments of approximately $487,000 assuming that such investment holdings remained constant through the year 2006 and an increase of investment income of approximately $582,000. A hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase of the fair values of our investment instruments of approximately $387,000 and a decrease in investment income of approximately $572,000. Our convertible subordinated debt is subject to a fixed interest rate and the notes are based on a fixed conversion ratio into Class A common stock. We have two interest rate swap agreements covering our convertible debt. The first was entered into by the Company in July 2003 covering $155.3 million of its 2.25% convertible subordinated notes (2.25% Notes) and is set at six month LIBOR minus 152 basis points, and the second was assumed in the acquisition of CNT which covers $75.0 million of the 3.00% convertible subordinated notes (3.00% Notes) previously issued by CNT and is set at three month LIBOR plus 69.5 basis points. Both agreements have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with the notes so that the interest payable on the majority of the notes effectively becomes variable. If interest rates on this variable rate debt were to increase or decrease, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease accordingly. This increased or decreased interest expense would be partially offset by the effects of these interest rate changes on our cash and investment portfolio. The 2.25% Notes are not listed on any securities exchange or included in any automated quotation system; however, the notes are eligible for trading on the PortalSM Market. On January 31, 2006, the approximate bid and ask prices per $100 of our 2.25% Notes was $84.73 and $85.23, respectively, resulting in 41 Table of Contents an aggregate fair value of between $146.2 million and $147.0 million. On January 31, 2006, the approximate bid and ask prices per $100 of our 3.00% Notes was $96.75 and $97.50, respectively, resulting in an aggregate fair value of between $120.3 million and $121.2 million. Our Class A common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol, MCDTA. On March 31, 2006, the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq National Market was $4.62 per share. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk We operate sales and support offices in several countries. We are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates because some sales transactions, and the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries, are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and British Pound Sterling. However, we have determined these amounts were not material. As of January 31, 2006, we had no open forward exchange contracts. Credit Risk Financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, consist principally of temporary cash investments, investments and trade receivables. We place our temporary cash investments and investment securities in 42 Table of Contents primarily investment grade instruments and limit the amount of investment with any one financial institution. We evaluate the credit risk associated with each of our customers, including our largest customers, EMC and IBM, but generally do not require collateral. We depend on these two customers for over 50% of our total revenue. They also comprise a significant portion of our trade receivables and, therefore, expose us to a concentration of credit risk. Because our sales are concentrated in a relatively few number of customers, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any one of these customers could have a material impact on our ability to collect our accounts receivable and, accordingly, on our future operating results. A small portion of our cash is invested in higher yielding investments, and within those investments there may be small amounts invested in derivative financial instruments. These investments are diminimus relative to our overall cash portfolio, and are not subject to any risk beyond our principal investment. We mainly invest our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in investment grade, highly liquid investments, consisting of money market instruments, bank certificates of deposits, government obligations and corporate debt instruments. In conjunction with the issuance of our convertible subordinated notes, we also entered into share option transactions on our Class A common stock with Bank of America, N.A. and /or certain of its affiliates. Subject to the movement in our Class A common stock price, we could be exposed to credit risk arising out of net settlement of these options in our favor. Based on our review of the possible net settlements and the credit strength of Bank of America, N.A. and its affiliates, we have concluded that we do not have a material exposure to credit risk as a result of these share option transactions. In July 2003, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan). Subject to the movement in interest rates, we could be exposed to credit risk arising out of net interest payments due to us from JPMorgan. Based on our review of the possible movement in interest rates and the credit strength of JPMorgan, we have concluded that we do not have a material exposure to credit risk as a result of this interest rate swap. In January 2004, CNT entered into an interest rate swap agreement with Credit Suisse First Boston (CFSB). Subject to the movement in interest rates, we could be exposed to credit risk arising out of net interest payments due to us from CFSB. Based on our review of the possible movement in interest rates and the credit strength of CFSB, we have concluded that we do not have a material exposure to credit risk as a result of this interest rate swap. 43 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
