<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: NOVAVAX INC
CIK: 0001000694
SIC: 2836
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070316
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Summary of Significant Transactions for further details). Our Strategy The key elements of our business strategy are as follows: Leveraging our technological leadership in influenza vaccines. Our recombinant VLP technology is well suited to create a differentiated vaccine against pandemic and seasonal influenza. This technology addresses several of the technical and logistical issues associated with a potential pandemic. It allows rapid creation of new vaccines that have high fidelity to emerging strains of influenza and the manufacturing process can be rapidly commissioned and scaled up. In addition, the technology provides the potential to differentiate a seasonal flu vaccine. 2 Maximizing the commercial impact of ESTRASORB and continuing to expand our drug delivery and formulation technologies. After licensing the North American marketing rights for ESTRASORB and ANDROSORB to Esprit, we are looking to license the rights to market this product in other territories. In addition, we continue our efforts to improve the packaging of ESTRASORB to improve our margins on the product. Our proven MNP technology has resulted in several product candidates that can be licensed to pharmaceutical companies. We have been able to demonstrate the benefits of our formulation for several compounds and are actively seeking to license these product candidates. Leveraging our formulation science to develop adjuvants for better vaccines. Adjuvants improve immunogenicity of vaccines and they are becoming central for competitive advantage of new vaccines. Our inherent strengths in formulations are well suited to develop new adjuvants, such as Novasomes, that can lead to best in class vaccines. These adjuvants can also be products in themselves and can be licensed to other companies to be used with their antigens. Developing new technologies, evaluating strategic alliances and acquisitions and fortifying our intellectual property. We continue to improve upon our current portfolio of technologies in formulations and vaccines. We believe these improvements will result in new intellectual property, making us more competitive. Leveraging collaborations and partnerships to advance products and technologies. We are engaged in seeking collaborations and partnerships to develop and commercialize our products. These include partnerships with governmental and academic organizations as well as other industry partners. Research and Development Activities Biologics We develop and produce biopharmaceutical proteins for use as vaccines against pandemic and seasonal influenza and other infectious diseases, and as tolerogens to prevent inflammatory responses in the initiation and progression of stroke and other illnesses. Our lead vaccine technology platform is based on virus like particles (VLPs), which are self assembling protein structures that resemble viruses. These are non infectious particles that for many viral diseases have been shown in animal and human studies to make effective vaccines. VLPs closely mimic natural virus particles with repeating protein structures that can elicit broad and strong antibody and cellular immune responses, but lack the genetic material required for replication. We have several ongoing development programs involving VLP vaccines that address urgent medical needs, including pandemic and seasonal influenza, HIV 1/AIDS and other infectious diseases. We collaborate with governmental, commercial and leading academic institutions in development, safety testing and clinical trials. Influenza VLP Vaccine. According to the Center for Disease Control, every year between 5% and 20% of the U.S. population is infected by the influenza virus. While the severity of illness varies, influenza causes an estimated 36,000 deaths in the U.S. and 500,000 worldwide annually. These seasonal outbreaks have in recent years been caused by subtypes of influenza virus designated as H3N2 and H1N1. More recently, unexpected subtypes of avian origin have resulted in severe morbidity and mortality in a limited number of people. Highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza viruses are now widespread in poultry in Asia and have spread to some European countries, where they have been linked to human infection. Genetic reassortment between avian and human influenza subtypes, or genetic mutations, may lead to the emergence of a virus capable of causing worldwide illness, a pandemic. All currently available influenza vaccines are produced by growing virus in chicken eggs, from which the virus is extracted and further processed. This 50 year old production method requires six to nine month lead times and significant investment in fixed production facilities, which, once commissioned, cannot have their capacity easily increased. The vaccine shortage during the 2004 flu season highlighted the limitations of current production methods and the need for increased vaccine manufacturing capacity. It also heightened concerns regarding 3 manufacturers capacity to respond to a pandemic, when the number of vaccine doses required will be higher than the number required for seasonal flu vaccines and lead times will be even shorter. Novavax is applying its expertise in producing VLPs to develop vaccines for both seasonal and pandemic strains of influenza. We produce VLPs using a baculovirus expression system in insect cells with disposable, low cost equipment that can be readily dispersed both nationally and internationally. By not requiring a fixed plant, production capacity can be increased quickly to whatever extent is required. Lead times for production are expected to be measured in weeks, not months. Proof of concept of the VLP approach in influenza has been obtained in various pre clinical studies. In a recent study, co expression of three genes (hemagglutinin, neuraminidase and matrix derived from the H9N2 influenza in insect cells) resulted in the self assembly of influenza H9N2 VLPs. The H9N2 VLPs elicited protective immune responses in mice and ferrets. In view of these encouraging preclinical data, we have accelerated and prioritized the development of our VLP influenza vaccines. We have completed comprehensive pre clinical studies in 2006 with the objective of initiating human clinical studies with influenza VLP vaccines in 2007. HIV 1/AIDS VLP Vaccine. The human toll of AIDS is staggering and now kills more people worldwide than any other infectious disease. Nearly 40 million people are infected with HIV 1, including four to six million people who were newly infected in 2005, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Under a five year National Institutes of Health (NIH) grant, which was awarded in 2003, we are working in collaboration with leading scientists from the University of Alabama Birmingham, Emory University and Harvard Medical School in the development of a second generation AIDS vaccine. In January 2007, the Company announced that it has significantly enhanced both the quality and purity of its VLP vaccine for HIV/AIDS. This second generation AIDS vaccine is based on the HIV 1 viral envelope with a natural three dimensional structure to trigger a protective immune response. Preclinical studies are under way using the improved HIV 1 vaccine, and planning has begun to advance this new vaccine to human clinical trials in collaboration with the U.S. government. Early versions of Novavaxs VLP vaccine were successful in triggering immune responses in preclinical studies. Novavax scientists and its collaborators discovered a way to optimize the expression of the HIV 1 envelope, which is a principle target for immunity in humans. SARS VLP Vaccine. In 2005, the NIH awarded us a $1.1 million, three year grant to develop a vaccine to prevent Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). SARS is a severe form of pneumonia, accompanied by a fever and caused by a coronavirus. WHO has reported over 8,000 SARS cases with nearly 800 deaths since the first case of SARS was reported in February 2003. Our SARS VLP vaccine is also based on the production of coronavirus like VLPs in insect cells. Hepatitis E Vaccine. Hepatitis E is the most prevalent form of acute hepatitis in the developing world. Hepatitis E is transmitted through contaminated water and is indistinguishable from the disease caused by the Hepatitis A virus. The disease is rarely fatal, although the risk of death and the intensity of the illness increase with age, with pregnant women being at a particularly high risk. In collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, Walter Reed Army Institute for Research, and GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, we have developed vaccines to prevent hepatitis caused by the Hepatitis E Virus. The recombinant Hepatitis E vaccine produced by us is in clinical trials conducted by GlaxoSmithKline. As reported in the New England Journal of Medicine (March 1, 2007), this recombinant Hepatitis E vaccine was evaluated for safety and efficacy in a phase II, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial in 2,000 healthy adults susceptible to Hepatitis E virus infection and found to be effective in the prevention of Hepatitis E. GlaxoSmithKline has commercial rights and we will share royalties with the NIH, if marketed. E Selectin Tolerogen. In collaboration with the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke we have been developing E selectin based molecularly derived products for the prevention of strokes. In September 2002, a published report in the professional journal Stroke provided experimental evidence on prevention of stroke in stroke prone rats. These results provided supportive evidence that E selectin tolerization may help in the prevention of strokes and other illness where inflammatory and immune responses are involved in the initiation and progression of disease. We were awarded a government contract for the pre clinical development and manufacture of E selectin for Phase I clinical trials to be run by the National Institute of Neurological Disease and Stroke and the NIH. 4 Novasome Adjuvant Program. Adjuvants are agents that enhance the immune response generated by antigens. As a consequence, smaller amounts of antigen can elicit the desired immune response, referred to as an antigen sparing effect. In addition, adjuvants may elicit responses from multiple components of the immune system leading to an improved level of immunity and protection. Novasomes, our proprietary adjuvants, are currently being evaluated in both the influenza and the HIV 1/AIDS VLP vaccine programs. Preclinical data have demonstrated an encouraging degree of improvement in immune responses with a variety of antigens. If warranted by future studies, Novasomes will be included in human studies of our VLP vaccines. Formulation Science The formulations group is committed to the creation and development of innovative and effective technologies for enhancing the performance of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) that are approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Use of APIs simplifies clinical testing and FDA approval because of the safety and efficacy records of the APIs. The key drivers for these research programs are those therapeutic segments and clinical conditions that cannot be satisfied by the conventional dosage forms. We have two drug delivery platform technologies: Micellar Nanoparticles: This is a nanotechnology based, lotion like formulation that has achieved a significant break through in transdermal therapeutics. Upon topical application, an MNP formulation deposits the API in both a readily available solution form as well as in a long acting particulate depot form onto the skin. The inactive ingredients used in the formulation not only help in forming an occlusive barrier that acts as a pseudo patch, but also drives the drug into the systemic circulation. Unlike conventional passive transdermal delivery systems such as patches, gels, and creams with chemical permeation enhancers, the MNPs have been shown to accommodate and deliver a wide spectrum of drugs having diverse lipophilicities (i.e., affinities for a hydrophobic or oil phase), molecular weights, melting points, and dosages. Novasomes: These are non phospholipid based, proprietary vesicular structures that can be either used for delivery of drugs or as vaccine adjuvants. Typically, Novasomes can be utilized for encapsulation of both hydrophilic and lipophilic drugs. The formulation design enhances deposition and retention of the active ingredients within the superficial skin layers (epidermis) but limits their passage into the systemic circulation. Novasomes, when formulated as vaccine adjuvants for co administration with a vaccine preparation, have demonstrated a significantly improved immunogenicity profile. The focus of our drug delivery product development is transdermal delivery both from a traditional and a non traditional perspective. Traditionally, this route of administration is known to offer therapeutic benefits like avoiding hepatic first pass metabolism, overcoming stability and toxicity issues related to oral administration, and has been viewed as a non invasive pathway to achieve drug transport into the systemic circulation through topical application. It is generally accepted that the best drug candidates for transdermal delivery are non ionic, lipophilic and potent and have a low molecular weight and a low melting point. Our first set of product candidates falls in this category, which includes testosterone, nicotine, fentanyl, clonidine, loratadine and oxybutynin. ESTRASORB, our first internally developed product, is a topical estradiol replacement lotion that helps validate the MNP based transdermal technology. ESTRASORB is the first topical emulsion for estrogen therapy approved by the FDA for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (hot flashes) associated with menopause. This product is unique in that it is the first commercial nanoparticle based transdermal pharmaceutical product. ESTRASORB has undergone the complete product development to commercialization cycle. In October 2005, the Company licensed the marketing rights for ESTRASORB to Esprit. This licensing agreement has provided a cash consideration of $12.5 million within the first year as well as sales based milestone payments and a double digit royalty on all sales. We retained rights to manufacture the product for Esprit at set prices and retained marketing rights for all territories outside of North America. However, the cost at which we manufacture ESTRASORB currently exceeds the fixed price at which we sell the product to Esprit. Our MNP testosterone product candidate for the treatment of female hypoactive sexual disorder is the second product in our pipeline. In April 2006, we entered into a second License and Supply Agreement with Esprit to 5 co develop, supply and commercialize this MNP testosterone product candidate. Under the terms of the License Agreement, Esprit was granted exclusive rights to this MNP testosterone product candidate in North America. We will receive a royalty on all net sales of the product as well as milestone payments on specific pre determined clinical and regulatory milestones. Esprit will be responsible for all development costs and will lead all clinical programs. Under the term of the Supply Agreement, we will be responsible for manufacturing the product. The MNP platform addresses several issues related to product development: Ability to formulate APIs with a wider range of chemical characteristics compared to traditional transdermal drug delivery technologies. Rapid and reliable product development, optimization, and screening. More simple, quick, and cost effective regulatory approval than the approval process for a New Chemical Entity. Research and Development Funding Total externally contracted research and development costs were $1.9 million in 2006, $1.8 million in 2005 and $1.7 million in 2004. Total internally sponsored research and development costs were $9.8 million in 2006, $3.3 million in 2005 and $5.6 million in 2004. Our manufacturing start up costs related to preparing our manufacturing facility for commercial production of ESTRASORB were included in research and development until April 2004, at which time the manufacturing costs have been included in cost of sales and inventory. Total manufacturing start up costs related to ESTRASORB included in research and development were $1.7 million in 2004. Further development costs of $0.2 million for ESTRASORB were included in 2005 internally sponsored research and development costs. Competition Technologies The biopharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological progress. We compete in two primary technology areas vaccines and transdermal pharmaceutical delivery. We compete in a competitive and capital intensive vaccine arena. Our technology is based upon utilizing the baculovirus expression system in insect cells to make VLPs. We believe this system offers many advantages when compared to other technologies and is uniquely suited for developing pandemic and seasonal influenza vaccines as well as other infectious diseases. The table below provides a list of key competitors and corresponding influenza vaccine technologies. Company Competing Technology Description Sanofi Pasteur, Inc. Inactivated sub unit egg based Medimmune Vaccines, Inc. Nasal, live attenuated cell based GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Inactivated egg based Novartis, Inc. Inactivated sub unit egg based Merck & Co., Inc. Novel vaccines 6 The transdermal drug delivery arena is highly competitive with a broad array of passive and active transdermal drug delivery technologies. Our technologies include MNPs and Novasomes. The MNP technology which is the basis for our FDA approved product ESTRASORB competes with a number of companies and technologies. The following table highlights several competitors and their corresponding technologies. Company Competing Technology Description Noven Pharmaceuticals Passive transdermal patches Antares Pharma, Inc. Passive topical gels Acrux Limited Passive metered dose transdermal spray Solvay Group Passive topical gels Alza Corporation Active transdermal micro projection enhanced permeation, electro transport Transpharma Medical Ltd. Active transdermal radio frequency enhanced permeation Altea Therapeutics Corporation Active transdermal thermally enhanced permeation Hormone Therapy Products Through ESTRASORB and our MNP testosterone product candidate, we continue to compete with specialty biopharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies in the U. S., Europe and elsewhere that are engaged in the discovery, development and marketing of hormone therapies, and other products that do or could compete with our currently marketed product and product candidates. These companies, as well as academic institutions, governmental agencies and private research organizations, also compete with us in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel and consultants. In 2005, we licensed ESTRASORB to Esprit. The estrogen therapy market is highly competitive, well established and includes many products marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The oral segment, which accounts for over 75% of the estrogen therapy market, is dominated by Wyeths Premarin, an oral estrogen tablet. Wyeth commits significant resources to promoting its portfolio of estrogen products and has a dominant presence with healthcare professionals that utilize oral estrogen therapy products. Further, we compete with Wyeth and numerous other companies marketing oral products, including manufacturers of generic 17 estradiol. Gynodiol, our marketed oral estrogen therapy product also competes in the crowded, competitive oral estrogen therapy market. Transdermal estrogen therapy products (patches) currently account for approximately 15% of the estrogen therapy market. Patch products are well accepted and many, such as Vivelle DOT, have been marketed for several years. Solvay Pharmaceuticals, a large international pharmaceutical company, recently introduced an ethanol based gel product, Estrogel that is directly competing with ESTRASORB. In addition to the currently approved and marketed products, several estrogen therapy products are in development. New Products In general, competition among pharmaceutical products is based in part on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price and patent position. An important factor is the relative timing of the market introduction of our products and our competitors products. Accordingly, the speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market is an important competitive factor. Our competitive position also depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and secure sufficient capital resources for the often substantial period between technological conception and commercial sale. Patents and Proprietary Rights We generally seek patent protection for our technology and product candidates in the U.S. and abroad. We have submitted patent applications that are pending in the U.S. and other countries. The patent position of biotechnology 7 firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we can: Obtain patents to protect our own technologies and products; Obtain licenses to use the technologies of third parties, which may be protected by patents; Protect our trade secrets and know how; and Operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others. Patent rights; licenses. Our licensors and we have patents and continue to seek patent protection for technologies that relate to our product candidates, as well as technologies that may prove useful for future product candidates. We currently have over 50 U.S. patents and corresponding foreign patents and patent applications relating to vaccines, biologics, and drug delivery systems and applications for various biological and chemical uses. We have U.S. patent applications pending in both the U.S. and worldwide covering the composition, manufacture and use of our organized lipid structures and related technologies. A current U.S. patent issued in 1997 covers our MNP technology and methods of their production. In addition, the Company continues to build upon its technology portfolio and file appropriate intellectual property disclosures and patent applications. Consistent with statutory guidelines issued under the Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 designed to encourage the dissemination of science and technology innovation and provide sharing of technology that has commercial potential, our collaborative research efforts with the U.S. government and with other private entities receiving federal funding provide that developments and results must be freely published, that information or materials supplied by us will not be treated as confidential and that we will be required to negotiate a license to any such developments and results in order to commercialize products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully obtain any such license at a reasonable cost, or that such developments and results will not be made available to our competitors on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. Trade Secrets. To a more limited extent, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. It is our policy to require employees, consultants, contractors, manufacturers, collaborators, and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment, consulting or collaborative relationships with us. We also require signed confidentiality agreements from any entity that is to receive confidential information. With respect to employees, consultants and contractors, the agreements generally provide that all inventions made by the individual while rendering services to us shall be assigned to us as our property. Government Regulations The development, production and marketing of pharmaceutical and biological products developed by Novavax or our collaborators is subject to regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. In the U. S., the development, manufacturing and marketing of human pharmaceuticals and vaccines are subject to extensive regulation under the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and biological products are subject to regulation both under provisions of that Act and under the Public Health Service Act. The FDA assesses the safety and efficacy of products and regulates, among other things, the testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, and advertising and promotion. The process of obtaining FDA approval for a new product is costly and time consuming. Before applying for FDA approval to market any new drug product candidates, we must first submit an Investigational New Drug application (an IND) that explains to the FDA the results of pre clinical testing conducted in laboratory animals and what we propose to do for human testing. At this stage, the FDA decides whether it is reasonably safe to move forward with testing the drug on humans. We must then conduct Phase I studies and larger scale Phase II and III human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products to the satisfaction of the FDA. Once these trials are complete, a New Drug Application (an NDA) can be filed with the FDA requesting approval of the drug marketing. 8 Vaccine clinical development follows the same general pathway as for drugs and other biologics. A sponsor who wishes to begin clinical trials with a vaccine must submit an IND describing the vaccine, its method of manufacture and quality control tests for release. Pre marketing (pre licensure) vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial human studies, referred to as Phase I, are safety and immunogenicity studies performed in a small number of closely monitored subjects. Phase II studies are dose ranging studies and may enroll hundreds or thousands of subjects. Finally, Phase III trials typically enroll thousands of individuals and provide the critical documentation of effectiveness and important additional safety data required for licensing. If successful, the completion of all three phases of clinical development can be followed by the submission of a Biologics License Application (a BLA). Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. Vaccine approval also requires the provision of adequate product labeling to allow health care providers to understand the vaccines proper use, including its potential benefits and risks, to communicate with patients and parents, and to safely deliver the vaccine to the public. Until a vaccine is given to the general population, all potential adverse events cannot be anticipated. Thus, many vaccines undergo Phase IV studies after a BLA has been approved and the vaccine is licensed and on the market. In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each product, each domestic manufacturing establishment must be registered with the FDA, is subject to FDA inspection and must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) regulations. To supply products for use either in the U.S. or outside the U.S., including clinical trials, U.S. and non U.S. manufacturing establishments, including third party facilities, must comply with cGMP regulations and are subject to periodic inspection by the corresponding regulatory agencies in their home country under reciprocal agreements with the FDA and or by the FDA. Preclinical studies may take several years to complete and there is no guarantee that the FDA will permit an IND based on those studies to become effective and the product to advance to clinical testing. Clinical trials may take several years to complete. After the completion of the required phases of clinical trials, if the data indicate that the drug or biologic product is safe and effective, a BLA or NDA (depending on whether the product is a biologic or pharmaceutical product) is filed with the FDA to approve the marketing and commercial shipment of the drug. This process takes substantial time and effort and the FDA may not accept the BLA or NDA for filing, and, even if filed, the FDA might not grant approval. FDA approval of a BLA or NDA may take up to two years and may take longer if substantial questions about the filing arise. The FDA may require post marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety of the applicable products. In addition to regulatory approvals that must be obtained in the U.S. an investigational product is also subject to regulatory approval in other countries in which it is intended to be marketed. No such product can be marketed in a country until the regulatory authorities of that country have approved an appropriate license application. FDA approval does not assure approval by other regulatory authorities. In addition, in many countries, the government is involved in the pricing of the product. In such cases, the pricing review period often begins after market approval is granted. We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other present and potential federal, state or local regulations. These and other laws govern our use, handling and disposal of various biological and chemical substances used in, and wastes generated by, our operations. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and viruses. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Additionally, for formulations containing controlled substances, we are subject to Drug Enforcement Act (DEA) regulations. There have been a number of federal and state proposals during the last few years to subject the pricing of pharmaceutical and biological products to government control and to make other changes to the medical care system of the U.S. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for medical goods and services may take in response to any medical reform proposals or legislation. We 9 cannot predict the effect medical or health care reforms may have on our business, and no assurance can be given that any such reforms will not have a material adverse effect. Manufacturing We have a 24,000 square foot manufacturing facility situated within a Cardinal Health, Inc. facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is staffed by our employees and operates under our quality system. ESTRASORB, our first FDA approved commercial product, is being manufactured at this facility. There have been no adverse 483 observations from FDA inspections associated with the production of ESTRASORB. For our vaccine business, we have a research and development facility in Rockville, Maryland and have established laboratories and staff to support the non GMP production and process development of more advanced manufacturing processes and product characterization method for our vaccine candidates. We have completed renovations of cGMP suites at this facility which will incorporate disposable cell culture equipment obtained from Wave Biotech to support the manufacturing requirements for early stage clinical trial materials for our pandemic and seasonal influenza vaccine candidates and other biologic products. We intend to continue expanding our own product development and manufacturing capability while utilizing third party contractors where we lack sufficient internal capability. Any plans to expand our internal manufacturing capabilities at our Rockville, Maryland facilities, including the facilities necessary to manufacture, test and package an adequate supply of finished products in order to meet our long term clinical needs, will require significant resources and will be subject to ongoing government approval and oversight. We have the quality infrastructure to support release testing and stability evaluation of cGMP materials. We also have the regulatory support to ensure compliance with FDA and other regulatory authorities. Sources of Supply Most of the raw materials and other supplies required in our business are generally available from various suppliers in quantities adequate to meet our needs. In some cases, we currently have only one supplier for certain of our manufacturing components. We have plans in place to develop multiple suppliers for all critical supplies before the time we would put any of our product candidates into commercial production. Marketing and Sales We continue to explore opportunities for corporate alliances and partners to help develop and ultimately commercialize and market our product candidates. Our strategy is to enter into collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and other companies for some or all aspects of product development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of our products that will require broad marketing capabilities and overseas marketing. These collaborators are generally expected to be responsible for funding or reimbursing all or a portion of the development costs, including the costs of later stage clinical testing necessary to obtain regulatory clearances and for commercial scale manufacturing, in exchange for rights to market specific products in particular geographic territories. Employees As of February 28, 2007, we had 56 full time employees and 4 part time employees for a total of 60, 15 of whom hold M.D. or Ph.D. degrees and 7 of whom hold other advanced degrees. Of our total workforce, 48 are engaged primarily in research, development and manufacturing activities and 12 are engaged primarily in business development, finance and accounting and administrative functions. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our employee relations to be good. Availability of Information Novavax was incorporated in 1987 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 9920 Belward Campus Drive, Rockville, Maryland, 20850. Our telephone number is (240) 268 2000 and our Internet address is www.novavax.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 10 We make available, free of charge and through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments to any such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. There are a number of risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward looking statements. Some of the risks described relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate. Others relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. You should also consider the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain. Our expenses have exceeded our revenues since our formation in 1987, and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2006 was $165.0 million. Our net revenues for the last three fiscal years were $4.7 million in 2006, $7.4 million in 2005 and $8.3 million in 2004. We have received a limited amount of product related revenue from research contracts, licenses and agreements to provide vaccine products, services and adjuvant technologies. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in entering into strategic alliances or collaborative arrangements with other companies that will result in other significant revenues to offset our expenses. Our net losses for the last three fiscal years were $23.1 million in 2006, $11.2 million in 2005 and $25.9 million in 2004. Our historical losses have resulted from research and development expenses for our vaccine and drug delivery product candidates and sales and marketing expenses for ESTRASORB, protection of our intellectual property and other general operating expenses. Our losses increased due to the launch of ESTRASORB as we expanded our manufacturing capacity and sales and marketing capabilities. More recently, our losses have increased, and will continue to increase, as a result of higher research and development efforts to support the development of our pandemic and seasonal influenza vaccines. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and anticipate that our expenses and losses will increase in the foreseeable future as we seek to: initiate Phase I/II clinical trials for our pandemic and seasonal flu vaccines; initiate additional preclinical studies for other product candidates using our VLP vaccine technology platform; expand our manufacturing capacity, which will require that we build out a portion of our research and development space as a Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, compliant and validated product manufacturing facility; relocate some of our business operations to a newly leased facility; maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; hire additional clinical, quality control, scientific and management personnel; and add operations, financial, accounting, facilities engineering and information systems personnel, consistent with expanding our operations. As a result, we expect our cumulative operating loss to increase until such time, if ever, product sales, licensing fees, royalties, milestones, contract research and other sources generate sufficient revenue to fund our continuing 11 operations. We cannot predict when, if ever, we might achieve profitability and cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability, if achieved. We have repositioned ourselves from a specialty pharmaceutical company and face all the risks inherent in the implementation of a new business strategy. In conjunction with the sale of our prenatal and related product lines coupled with the grant of an exclusive North American license to Esprit Pharma, Inc. to our lead product ESTRASORB during the second half of 2005, we have changed the focus of the Company from the development and commercialization of specialty pharmaceutical products to the research and development of new products using our proprietary drug delivery and biological platforms. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in implementing our new business strategy. We intend to focus our research and development activities on areas in which we have particular strengths and on technologies that appear promising. These technologies often are on the cutting edge of modern science. As a result, the outcome of any research or development program is highly uncertain. Only a small fraction of these programs ultimately result in commercial products or even product candidates and a number of events could delay our development efforts and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a product candidate. Product candidates that initially appear promising often fail to yield successful products. In many cases, preclinical or clinical studies will show that a product candidate is not efficacious or that it raises safety concerns or has other side effects that outweigh their intended benefit. Success in preclinical or early clinical trials may not translate into success in large scale clinical trials. Further, success in clinical trials will likely lead to increased investment, adversely affecting short term profitability, to bring such products to market. Even after a product is approved and launched, general usage or post marketing studies may identify safety or other previously unknown problems with the product, which may result in regulatory approvals being suspended, limited to narrow indications or revoked, or which may otherwise prevent successful commercialization. We have limited financial resources and we are not certain that we will be able to maintain our operations or to fund the development of future products. We do not expect to generate revenues from product sales, licensing fees, royalties, milestones, contract research or other sources in an amount sufficient to fund our operations, and we will therefore use our cash resources and expect to require additional funds to maintain our operations, continue our research and development programs, commence future preclinical studies and clinical trials, seek regulatory approvals and manufacture and market our products. We will seek such additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements and other sources. We cannot be certain that adequate additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise the additional funds required for our anticipated operations, we may be required to delay significantly, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, downsize our general and administrative infrastructure, or seek alternative measures to avoid insolvency, including arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates or products. If we raise additional funds through future offerings of shares of our common stock or other securities, such offerings would cause dilution of existing stockholders percentage ownership in the Company. These future offerings also could have a material and adverse effect on the price of common stock. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and experience, which may negatively impact our commercial opportunities and those of our current and future licensees. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources, experience and expertise in: research and development; preclinical testing; 12 designing and implementing clinical trials; regulatory processes and approvals; production and manufacturing; and sales and marketing of approved products. Principal competitive factors in our industry include: the quality and breadth of an organizations technology; management of the organization and the execution of the organizations strategy; the skill of an organizations employees and its ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; an organizations intellectual property portfolio; the range of capabilities, from target identification and validation to drug discovery and development to manufacturing and marketing; and the availability of substantial capital resources to fund discovery, development and commercialization activities. Large and established companies such as Merck & Co., Inc., GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Novartis, Inc., Sanofi and Medimmune Inc., among others, compete in the vaccine market. In particular, these companies have greater experience and expertise in securing government contracts and grants to support their research and development efforts, conducting testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals to market products, and manufacturing such products on a broad scale. Smaller or early stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical or other companies. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions, which may prevent or limit our product commercialization efforts. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If any of our competitors succeeds in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. In order to effectively compete, we will have to make substantial investments in manufacturing and sales and marketing or partner with one or more established companies. There is no assurance that we will be successful in gaining significant market share for any product or product candidate. Our technologies and products also may be rendered obsolete or noncompetitive as a result of products introduced by our competitors to the marketplace more rapidly and at a lower cost. We may have product liability exposure. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearances are obtained, can result in product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in the total amount of $10 million for claims arising from the use of our currently marketed products and products in clinical trials prior to FDA approval. Coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, however, and we may not be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain coverage for the use of our other products in the future. This insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy liabilities resulting from product liability claims. A successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable items, if at all. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim would be time consuming and expensive, may damage our reputation in the marketplace, and would likely divert managements attention. 13 If we lose or are unable to attract key management or other personnel, we may experience delays in product development. We depend on our senior executive officers as well as key scientific and other personnel. The loss of these individuals could harm our business and significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives. We have not purchased key man life insurance on any of our executive officers or key personnel, and therefore may not have adequate funds to find acceptable replacements for them. Competition for qualified employees is intense among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the loss of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could hinder our ability to complete human studies successfully and develop marketable products. We also rely from time to time on outside advisors who assist us in formulating our research and development and clinical strategy. We may not be able to attract and retain these individuals on acceptable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced significant management turnover. Our current President and Chief Executive Officer, Rahul Singhvi, assumed this responsibility in August 2005. Most of our executive officers have joined us since that time. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long term history with our Company, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs. If we were to experience additional turnover at the executive level, these risks would be exacerbated. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our cash flow and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had $23.2 million of outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness could have significant consequences. For example, it: could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs and other general corporate requirements; could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our other financial obligations if a default under the terms of existing obligations were to occur; could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less indebtedness; and could limit our ability to obtain additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. We may incur additional indebtedness for various reasons, which would increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. The conversion of our outstanding convertible debt, and the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion or exercise of preferred stock and or warrants or in future offerings would cause dilution of existing security holders interests in the Company and may cause the price of our common stock to go down. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $22 million that as of such date were convertible into an aggregate of 4,029,304 shares of our common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of such notes, as well as in connection with future capital raising activities, would cause immediate and potentially substantial equity dilution for existing stockholders and the price of our common stock could be subject to significant downward pressure. 14 We have made loans to certain of our directors, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. On March 21, 2002, pursuant to the Novavax, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Plan, the Company approved the payment of the exercise price of options by two of its directors through the delivery of full recourse, interest bearing promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $1,480,000. The borrowings accrue interest at 5.07% per annum and are secured by an aggregate of 261,667 shares of common stock owned by the directors. The notes were payable upon the earlier to occur of the following: (i) the date on which the director ceases for any reason to be a director of the Company (ii) in whole, or in part, to the extent of net proceeds, upon the date on which the director sells all or any portion of the pledged shares or (iii) payable in full on March 21, 2007. In May 2006, one of these directors resigned from the Companys Board of Directors. Following his resignation the Company approved an extension of the former directors $448,000 note. The note continues to accrue interest at 5.07% per annum and is secured by 95,000 shares of common stock owned by the former director and is payable on December 31, 2007, or earlier to the extent of the net proceeds from any sale of the pledged shares. The terms and interest rate remain unchanged for the promissory note for the active director and is due to be repaid in full on March 21, 2007. Due to heightened sensitivity in the current environment surrounding related party transactions, these transactions could be viewed negatively in the market and our stock price could be negatively affected. Our corporate governance policies have been revised and our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan prohibits any loans or guarantees to directors, officers or employees. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT RISKS Because our product development efforts depend on new and rapidly evolving technologies, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be successful. Our work depends on new, rapidly evolving technologies and on the marketability and profitability of innovative products. Commercialization involves risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative technologies and the risks associated with drug development generally. These risks include the possibility that: these technologies or any or all of the products based on these technologies will be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances; the products, if safe and effective, will be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or uneconomical to market; proprietary rights of third parties will prevent us or our collaborators from exploiting technologies or marketing products; and third parties will market superior or equivalent products. We have not completed the development of products other than ESTRASORB and we may not succeed in obtaining the FDA approval necessary to sell additional products. The development, manufacture and marketing of our pharmaceutical and biological products are subject to government regulation in the U.S. and other countries. In the U.S. and most foreign countries, we must complete rigorous preclinical testing and extensive human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product. ESTRASORB is the only product developed by the Company to have been approved for sale in the U.S. Approval outside the U.S. may take longer or may require additional clinical trials. We also have product candidates in preclinical laboratory or animal studies. The steps required by the FDA before our proposed investigational products may be marketed in the U.S. include: performance of preclinical (animal and laboratory) tests; 15 submissions to the FDA or an Investigational New Drug application (IND) which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence; performance of adequate and well controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational product in the intended target population; performance of a consistent and reproducible manufacturing process intended for commercial use; submission to the FDA of a Biologics License Application (BLA) or a New Drug Application (NDA); and FDA approval of the BLA or NDA before any commercial sale or shipment of the product. The processes are expensive and can take many years to complete, and we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products to the satisfaction of such regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities may also require additional testing and we may be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represents an improved form of treatment over existing therapies, which we may be unable to do so without conducting further clinical studies. Moreover, if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution. Expanded or additional indications for approved drugs may not be approved, which could limit our revenues. Foreign regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Consequently, even if we believe that preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for our product candidates, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately grant approval for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. If our drug candidates are not approved, our ability to generate revenues may be limited and our business will be adversely affected. We must identify products and product candidates for development with our technologies and establish successful third party relationships. Our long term ability to generate product related revenue depends in part on our ability to identify products and product candidates that may utilize our drug delivery and biological technologies. If internal efforts do not generate sufficient product candidates, we will need to identify third parties that wish to license our technologies for development of their products or product candidates. We may be unable to license our technologies to third parties for a number of reasons, including: an inability to negotiate license terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from resulting products; an inability to identify suitable products or product candidates within, or complementary to, our areas of expertise; or an unwillingness on the part of competitors to utilize the technologies of a competing company. Our near and long term viability will also depend in part on our ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and government agencies. Establishing strategic collaborations and obtaining government funding is difficult and time consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position; government agencies may reject contract or grant applications based on their assessment of public need, the public interest and our products ability to address these areas. If we fail to establish a sufficient number of collaborations or government relationships on acceptable terms, we may not generate sufficient revenue. Even if we successfully establish new collaborations or obtain government funding, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidates or the generation of any sales or royalty revenue. Reliance on such relationships also exposes us to a number of risks. We may not have the ability to control the activities of our partner and cannot assure you that they will fulfill their obligations to us, including with respect to the license, development and commercialization of products and product candidates, in a timely manner or at all. We cannot assure you that such partners will devote sufficient resources to our products and product candidates or properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights; we also can give no assurances that our partners will not utilize such rights in such a way as to invite or cause litigation. Any failure on the part of 16 our partners to perform or satisfy their obligations to us could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of products and product candidates, and affect our ability to realize product revenues. Disagreements, including disputes over the ownership of technology developed with such collaborators, could result in litigation, which would be time consuming and expensive, and may delay or terminate research and development efforts, regulatory approvals, and commercialization activities. If we or our partners fail to maintain our existing agreements or in the event we fail to establish agreements as necessary, we could be required to undertake research, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities solely at our own expense. These activities would significantly increase our capital requirements and, given our current limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, significantly delay the commercialization of products and product candidates. Even though we have received governmental support in the past, we may not continue to receive support at the same level or at all. The U.S. government, through its various agencies, has provided grants to fund certain research and development efforts. There can be no assurances that the Company will continue to receive the same level of funding from the U.S. government, if at all. If we or our collaborators are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities or are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for a manufacturing facility for our products, we may experience delays, and be unable to meet demand, and may lose potential revenues. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. We have limited experience manufacturing any of our product candidates in the volumes that will be necessary to support large scale clinical trials or commercial sales. Efforts to establish capabilities, if pursued, may not meet initial expectations as to scheduling, reproducibility, yield, purity, cost, potency or quality. If we or our collaborators are unable to manufacture our product candidates in clinical quantities or, when necessary, commercial quantities, then we will need to rely on third parties to manufacture compounds for clinical and commercial purposes. These third party manufacturers must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial products. Our products may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third parties give other products greater priority. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any necessary third party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis. There are very few contract manufacturers who currently have the capability to produce our proposed product candidates, and the inability of any of these contract manufacturers to deliver our required quantities of product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices would negatively affect our operations. Before we or our collaborators can begin commercial manufacturing of any of our product candidates, we or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval of the manufacturing facility and process. Manufacturing of our proposed product candidates must comply with the FDAs current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) requirements, and non U.S. regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP and non U.S. regulatory requirements, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We or our collaborators must also pass a pre approval inspection before FDA approval. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements, our product candidates would not be approved. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements after approval, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. The FDA and non U.S. regulatory authorities also have the authority to perform unannounced periodic inspections of our manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMP and non U.S. regulatory requirements. 17 We rely on a limited number of suppliers for some of our manufacturing materials. Any problems experienced by any of these suppliers could negatively affect our operations. We rely on third party suppliers and vendors for some of the materials used in the manufacture of our product candidates. For supply of early clinical trial materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. We have limited experience with alternative sources of raw materials. Any delay or interruption would negatively affect our operations. We have limited marketing capabilities, and if we are unable to enter into collaborations with marketing partners or develop our own sales and marketing capability, we may not be successful in commercializing any approved products. We currently have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. As a result, we will depend on collaborations with third parties that have established distribution systems and sales forces. To the extent that we enter into co promotion or other licensing arrangements, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of third parties, over which we may have little or no control. If we are unable to reach and maintain agreements with one or more pharmaceutical companies or collaborators, we may be required to market our products directly. Developing a marketing and sale force is expensive and time consuming and could delay a product launch. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain qualified sales personnel or otherwise develop this capability. If reforms in the health care industry make reimbursement for our potential products less likely, the market for our potential products will be reduced, and we will lose potential sources of revenue. Our successes may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of therapeutic products and related treatments will be available from third party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs, and other organizations. Over the past decade, the cost of health care has risen significantly, and there have been numerous proposals by legislators, regulators, and third party health care payors to curb these costs. Some of these proposals have involved limitations on the amount of reimbursement for certain products. Similar federal or state health care legislation may be adopted in the future and any products that we or our collaborators seek to commercialize may not be considered cost effective. Adequate third party insurance coverage may not be available for us to establish and maintain price levels that are sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the existence or threat of cost control measures could cause our corporate collaborators to be less willing or able to pursue research and development programs related to our product candidates. RISKS FROM COLLABORATION RELATIONSHIPS AND STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS The return on our investment in ESTRASORB depends in large part on the success of our relationship with Esprit Pharma, Inc. and our ability to manufacture the product. In October 2005, we entered into a License Agreement and a Supply Agreement with Esprit Pharma Inc., (Esprit) for ESTRASORB. Under the License agreement, we granted Esprit exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America. While our License Agreement with Esprit gives us some limited protections with respect to that companys ESTRASORB marketing and sales efforts and, we believe, creates incentives for Esprit consistent with our own, we cannot control the amount and timing of the marketing efforts that Esprit devotes to ESTRASORB or make any assurances that Esprits promotion and marketing of ESTRASORB in North America will be successful. We do not have a history of working together with Esprit and cannot predict the success of the collaboration, nor can we give any assurances that Esprit will not reduce or curtail its efforts to market ESTRASORB because of factors affecting its business or operations beyond our control. Loss of Esprit as a partner in the commercialization of ESTRASORB, any dispute over the terms of our decisions regarding the License and Supply Agreements, or other adverse developments in our relationship with Esprit may harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. We also can give no assurances that Esprit will be more successful than us in gaining market acceptance of ESTRASORB. Prescription trends for ESTRASORB have not met our expectations to date and Esprit will face 18 similar obstacles to gaining market share of the estrogen therapy market, including competition from large and established companies with similar estrogen therapy products. Numerous companies worldwide currently produce and sell estrogen products for clinical indications identical to those for ESTRASORB. Currently, the oral and patch product segment account for approximately 75% and 15% of the market, respectively, according to 2004 Verispan data. Wyeth commits significant resources to the sale and marketing of its product, Premarin, in order to maintain its market leadership position. Several other companies compete in the estrogen category including Berlex Laboratories, Inc., Novartis Pharma AG and Solvay Pharmaceuticals. In particular, Solvay has introduced an alcohol based gel product, Estrogel, which is directly competitive with ESTRASORB. These and other products sold by our competitors have all achieved a degree of market penetration superior to ESTRASORB. In addition, under the Supply Agreement, we are obligated to supply Esprit with ESTRASORB through the manufacture of the product at our manufacturing facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. We have only limited experience with the large capacity manufacturing required for the commercial sale of a product. Although we have validated our manufacturing methods for the product with the FDA, we will remain subject to that agencys rules and regulations regarding cGMP, which are enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. Compliance with such rules and regulations requires us to spend substantial funds and hire and retain qualified personnel. We face the possibility that we may not be able to meet Esprits supply requirements under the agreement in a timely fashion at acceptable quality, quantity and prices or in compliance with applicable regulations. If our facility fails to comply with applicable regulations, we will be forced to utilize a third party contractor to manufacture the product. We may not be able to enter into alternative manufacturing arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. Moreover, the manufacturers we use may not provide sufficient quantities of product to meet our specifications or our delivery, cost and other requirements. We must utilize our manufacturing facility for products other than ESTRASORB in order to avoid operating the facility at a loss. Currently we are manufacturing ESTRASORB at our facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at a loss and it is likely we will continue to manufacture ESTRASORB at a loss until production volumes increase or we enter into additional contract manufacturing agreements with third parties to more fully utilize our manufacturing facilitys capacity. The facility is able to accommodate much greater production capacity than its current schedule, which, if more fully utilized, would offset the fixed costs related to the manufacturing process and facility. In addition, we are negotiating revisions to our agreements for packaging costs of ESTRASORB as well as our fixed lease costs for the manufacturing facility. If these negotiations result in higher packaging or lease costs for us, it may have a material adverse impact on future financial results. Our plan to use collaborations to leverage our capabilities and to grow in part through the strategic acquisition of other companies and technologies may not be successful if we are unable to integrate our partners capabilities or the acquired companies with our operations or if our partners do not meet expectations. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate strategic partnership opportunities and consider acquiring complementary technologies and businesses. In order for our future collaboration efforts to be successful, we must first identify partners whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. Technologies to which we gain access may prove ineffective or unsafe. Our current agreements that grant us access to such technologies may expire and may not be renewed. Our partners may prove difficult to work with or less skilled than we originally expected. In addition, any past collaborative successes are no indication of potential future success. In order to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, we must integrate the acquired companys business, technology and employees in an efficient and effective manner. The successful combination of companies in a rapidly changing biotechnology industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. The combination of two companies requires, among other things, integration of the companies respective technologies and research and development efforts. We cannot assure you that this integration will be accomplished smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integration are increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations and addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration of certain 19 operations will require the dedication of management resource that may temporarily distract attention from the day to day operations of the combined companies. The business of the combined companies may also be disrupted by employee retention uncertainty and lack of focus during integration. The inability of management to integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, in particular, to integrate and retain key scientific personnel, or the inability to integrate successfully two technology platforms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our collaboration agreements may prohibit us from conducting research in areas that may compete with our collaboration products, while our collaborators may not be limited to the same extent. This could negatively affect our ability to develop products and, ultimately, prevent us from achieving a continuing source of revenues. We anticipate that some of our corporate or academic collaborators will be conducting multiple product development efforts within each disease area that is the subject of its collaboration with us. We generally have agreed not to conduct independently, or with any third party, certain research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Therefore, our collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research that we may pursue, either alone or with others. Some of our collaborators, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of their collaborations with us. In addition, competing products, either developed by the collaborators or to which the collaborators have rights, may result in their withdrawing support for our product candidates. Generally under our academic collaborations, we retain the right to exclusively license any technologies developed using funding we provided. If we elect to not license a particular technology, the academic collaborator is typically free to use the technology for any purpose, including the development and commercialization of products that might compete with our products. Because we depend on third parties to conduct some of our laboratory testing and human studies, we may encounter delays in or lose some control over our efforts to develop products. We are dependent on third party research organizations to conduct some of our laboratory testing and human studies. If we are unable to obtain any necessary testing services on acceptable terms, we may not complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. If we rely on third parties for laboratory testing and human studies, we may lose some control over these activities and become too dependent upon these parties. These third parties may not complete testing activities on schedule or when we request. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research organizations to conduct our laboratory testing and human studies. REGULATORY RISKS We may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products on a timely basis or comply with our continuing regulatory obligations after approval is obtained. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased trial costs. The speed with which we complete our clinical trials and our applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: the rate of patient enrollment and retention, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and the nature of the protocol; Institutional Review Board approval of the protocol and the informed consent form; prior regulatory agency review and approval; our ability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; negative test results or side effects experienced by trial participants; 20 analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities, which are susceptible to varying interpretations and which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug or vaccine approval during the period of product development; and the availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory marketing approvals. We may not be able to obtain the approvals necessary to conduct clinical trials. We also face the risk that the results of our clinical trials may be inconsistent with the results obtained in preclinical studies or that the results obtained in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the specialty biopharmaceutical and product development industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal and human testing. Furthermore, even if a product gains regulatory approval, such approval is likely to limit the indicated uses for which it may be marketed and the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including adverse event reporting requirements and the FDAs general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved uses. Failure to comply with any post approval requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Any of these enforcement actions, any unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements, or any safety issues that arise with any approved products, could adversely affect our ability to market products and generate revenues and thus adversely affect our ability to continue our business. We also may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered and we cannot assure you that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise following any regulatory approval. With the use of any drug by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the drug become suspect as having a casual relationship to the adverse event. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, possibly subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and our financial condition. Because we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, we may be unable to conduct our business in the most advantageous manner. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, emissions and wastewater discharges, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, including infectious disease agents. We also cannot accurately predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative action. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. We have facilities in Maryland and Pennsylvania that are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, micro organisms and various hazardous compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the U.S. these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability 21 may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Although we have general liability insurance, these policies contain exclusions from insurance against claims arising from pollution from chemical or pollution from hazardous. Our collaborators are working with these types of hazardous materials in connection with our collaborations. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury we or our collaborators cause to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, any hazardous materials. However, we believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable environmental and occupational health and safety regulations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Our success in large part depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and other trade secrets, including our proprietary drug delivery and biological technologies. To do so, we must prosecute and maintain existing patents, obtain new patents and pursue trade secret and other intellectual property protection. We also must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties or letting third parties infringe our rights. We currently have over 50 U.S. patents and corresponding foreign patents and patent applications covering our technologies. However, patent issues relating to pharmaceuticals involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of biotechnology patent claims that are granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or enforced by the federal courts. Therefore, we do not know whether our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantage. We also cannot be sure that we will develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. Furthermore, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. There is a risk that third parties may challenge our existing patents or claim that we are infringing their patents or proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending patent infringement suits or in filing suits against others to have their patents declared invalid or claim infringement. It is also possible that we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to avoid infringing third party patents or other proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that such third party licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain required third party licenses, we may be delayed in or prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring such licenses. Although our patents include claims covering various features of our products and product candidates, including composition, methods of manufacture and use, our patents do not provide us with complete protection against the development of competing products. Some of our know how and technology is not patentable. To protect our proprietary rights in unpatentable intellectual property and trade secrets, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and commercialization activities, including any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents owned by third parties and to which we do not hold licenses or other rights. There may rights we are not aware of, including applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third parties could bring claims against us and that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or biologic drug candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are 22 able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. All of the issues described above could also impact our collaborators, which would also impact the success of the collaboration and therefore us. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to counter infringement for unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at the risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. We may need to license intellectual property from third parties and if our right to use the intellectual property we license is affected, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. We expect that we will need to license intellectual property from third parties in the future and that these licenses will be material to our business. We will not own the patents or patent applications that underlie these licenses and we will not control the enforcement of the patents. We will rely upon our licensors to properly prosecute and file those patent applications and prevent infringement of those patents. While many of the licenses under which we have rights provide us with exclusive rights in specified fields, the scope of our rights under these and other licenses may be subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. In addition, our rights to use these technologies and practice the inventions claimed in the licensed patents and patent applications are subject to our licensors abiding by the terms of those licenses and not terminating them. Any of our licenses may be terminated by the licensor if we are in breach of a term or condition of the license agreement, or in certain other circumstances. Our product candidates and potential product candidates will require several components that may each be the subject of a license agreement. The cumulative license fees and royalties for these components may make the commercialization of these product candidates uneconomical. 23 If patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to develop and commercialize our discoveries. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biotechnology products and processes in the U.S. and other important markets outside the U.S., such as Europe and Japan. Foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the U.S. patent system. We expect that litigation or administrative proceedings will likely be necessary to determine the validity and scope of certain of our and others proprietary rights. Any such litigation or proceeding may result in a significant commitment of resources in the future and could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may be time consuming or impossible to do. In addition, changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to use our discoveries or develop and commercialize our products. We cannot assure you that the patents we obtain or the unpatented technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Because our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile, the market price of our common stock may be lower or more volatile than you expected. Our stock price has been highly volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From January 1, 2006 through March 9, 2007, the closing price of our common stock has been as low as $2.77 per share and as high as $8.31 per share. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: future announcements about our Company or our collaborators or competitors, including the results of testing, technological innovations or new commercial products; negative regulatory actions with respect to ESTRASORB or our product candidates or regulatory approvals with respect to our competitors products; depletion of our cash reserves and or the approach of our convertible debt maturity date if additional revenues are not generated or additional capital is not raised; changes in government regulations; developments in our relationships with our collaboration partners; announcements relating to health care reform and reimbursement levels for new drugs; announcement by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing stockholders (including stock by insiders or 5% stockholders); litigation; public concern as to the safety of our products; significant set backs or concerns with the industry or the market as a whole; and the other factors described in this Risk Factor section. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuation that have particularly affected the market price for many emerging and biotechnology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to be lower or more volatile than expected. 24 We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any such dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our earnings for use in the development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock would be the only source of gain for stockholders until dividends are paid if at all. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By laws, Delaware law, and our Shareholder Rights Plan could delay or prevent the acquisition of the Company, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to stockholders, and could impede changes in our Board. Our organizational documents could hamper a third partys attempt to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of, the Company. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, that empowers our Board to delay or negotiate, and thereby possibly thwart, any tender offer or takeover attempt the Board opposes. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions also could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for our securities and make it more difficult to change the composition of our Board in any one year. These provisions include the right of the Board to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of common stock without any further vote or action by stockholders, the existence of a staggered Board with three classes of directors serving staggered three year terms and advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate directors and make proposals. The Company also is afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless advance board or stock holder approval was obtained. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Director or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES We have current operations in four leased facilities. In January 2007, we commenced a lease for approximately 51,200 square feet in Rockville, Maryland, which is our new corporate headquarters and will include administrative offices, vaccine research and development along with future expansion activities. We lease approximately 13,900 square feet at our other facility in Rockville, Maryland for contract vaccine research, development and manufacturing of early stage clinical supplies. We lease approximately 32,900 square feet for administrative office space and research and development activities at our former corporate headquarters in Malvern, Pennsylvania of which approximately 28,000 square feet is being subleased. Our manufacturing facility for ESTRASORB and other contract manufacturing is located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where we lease approximately 24,000 square feet of manufacturing space. We believe that these facilities are sufficient for our current needs. We have additional space in our current facilities to accommodate our anticipated growth over the next several years. 25 A summary of our current facilities is set forth below. Approximate Property Location Square Footage Purpose Rockville, MD 51,200 Corporate headquarters and vaccine research and development Rockville, MD 13,900 Vaccine research and development and early clinical phase manufacturing Malvern, PA 32,900 Former corporate headquarters and research and development Philadelphia, PA 24,000 Manufacturing and packaging facility for ESTRASORB Total square footage 122,000 Malvern, PA sublease (28,000 ) Net square footage 94,000 We had another approximately 2,800 square foot facility in Pacific Grove, California for product research and development activities which was closed in January 2007. The lease expired on January 31, 2007. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is a defendant in a lawsuit filed in December 2003 by a former director alleging that the Company wrongfully terminated the former directors stock options. In April 2006, a directed verdict in favor of the Company was issued and the case was dismissed. The plaintiff has filed an appeal with the court. Management believes the lawsuit is without merit and the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome of such appeal is minimal. Accordingly, no liability related to this contingency is accrued in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2006. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol NVAX. The following table sets forth the range of high and low closing sale prices for our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ National Market for each quarter in the two most recent years: Quarter Ended High Low March 31, 2006 $ 8.31 $ 3.88 June 30, 2006 $ 7.62 $ 4.19 September 30, 2006 $ 4.99 $ 2.84 December 31, 2006 $ 5.30 $ 3.67 March 31, 2005 $ 3.35 $ 1.35 June 30, 2005 $ 1.64 $ 1.13 September 30, 2005 $ 2.56 $ 0.70 December 31, 2005 $ 6.01 $ 1.67 26 On March 9, 2007, the last sale price reported on the NASDAQ National Market for our common stock was $3.11. Our common stock was held by approximately 12,000 stockholders of record as of February 28, 2007, one of which is Cede & Co., a nominee for Depository Trust Company (or DTC). All of the shares of common stock held by brokerage firms, banks and other financial institutions as nominees for beneficial owners are deposited into participant accounts at DTC, and are therefore considered to be held of record by Cede & Co. as one stockholder. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance under our Equity Compensation Plans Information regarding our equity compensation plans, including both stockholder approved plans and non stockholder approved plans, is included in Item 12. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities; Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company issued unregistered shares of its common stock to two individuals. In August 2005, the Company issued 50,000 shares of restricted common stock to its former Chairman of the Board, Denis M. ODonnell, M.D., in connection with his separation from the Company as an employee. Also in August 2005, the Company issued 250,000 shares of restricted common stock to Nelson M. Sims, the Companys former President, Chief Executive Officer and director, in connection with his separation from the Company. The Company issued the shares pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 and received no cash consideration. In accordance with his separation agreement, Mr. Sims agreed to the cancellation of all then outstanding options and other rights to purchase shares of the Company. In exchange, Mr. Sims received his salary through the date of resignation and reimbursement of certain expenses. The Company also agreed to pay him severance benefits, part of which included the 250,000 shares of restricted common stock. In July 2004, the Company issued 952,381 shares of common stock at $5.25 per share, for gross proceeds of $5.0 million to an accredited investor in reliance on Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. A resale registration statement was filed and declared effective in August 2004. Also in July 2004, the Company entered into definitive agreements for the private placement of $35 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible notes to a group of private investors. The notes carry a 4.75% coupon, payable semi annually, mature on July 19, 2009 and are currently convertible into 4,029,304 shares of Novavax common stock at $5.46 per share. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, the Company purchased 19,393 shares of Novavax common stock from various participants 401(K) retirement plan at an average price of $4.79 per share. 27 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2006. The information below should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10 K. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for future periods. For the Years Ended December 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 (In thousands, except per share data) Statements of Operations Data: Revenues $ 15,005 $ 11,785 $ 8,260 $ 7,388 $ 4,683 Loss from operations (21,558 ) (16,054 ) (24,464 ) (9,171 ) (24,607 ) Net loss (22,697 ) (17,273 ) (25,920 ) (11,174 ) (23,068 ) Basic and diluted net loss per share $ (0.93 ) $ (0.58 ) $ (0.70 ) $ (0.26 ) $ (0.39 ) Shares used in computing basic and diluted net loss per share 24,433,868 29,852,797 36,926,034 42,758,302 58,664,365 As of December 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and investments $ 3,005 $ 27,633 $ 17,876 $ 31,893 $ 73,595 Total current assets 6,242 32,062 23,937 37,611 77,342 Working capital 378 27,226 15,361 32,735 72,003 Total assets 57,505 84,159 77,993 84,382 121,877 Long term debt, less current portion 41,103 41,100 35,970 29,678 22,458 Accumulated deficit (87,527 ) (104,800 ) (130,720 ) (141,894 ) (164,962 ) Total stockholders equity 8,073 35,944 33,281 49,652 94,001 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Certain statements contained herein or as may otherwise be incorporated by reference herein constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding product sales, royalties, milestone payments and other information related to license agreements and collaboration arrangements, governmental grant applications, future licensing of our products, future product development and related clinical trials, manufacturing capabilities and future research and development, including Food and Drug Administration approval. Such forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, the following: general economic and business conditions; competition; ability to enter into future collaborations; collaborators may delay or terminate their relationship with us; our ability to obtain government funding; unexpected changes in technologies and technological advances; our ability to obtain rights to technology; ability to obtain and enforce patents; ability to commercialize and manufacture products; our ability to maintain commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; results of clinical studies; progress of research and development activities; business abilities and judgment of personnel; our ability to be able to attract and retain qualified personnel; changes in, or failure to comply with, governmental regulations; changes in intellectual property laws, health care legislation or other federal and state laws to which the Company is subject; or substantial indebtedness; the rate at which we utilize capital; our ability to obtain adequate financing in 28 the future through product licensing, co promotional arrangements, public or private equity financing or otherwise; and other factors referenced herein. All forward looking statements contained in this annual report are based on information available to the Company on the date hereof, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward looking statements, except as specifically required by law. Accordingly, past results and trends should not be used to anticipate future results or trends. Overview Novavax, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Novavax or the Company), was incorporated in 1987, and is a biopharmaceutical company focused on creating differentiated, value added vaccines that leverage the Companys proprietary virus like particle (VLP) technology as well as its proprietary Novasomes adjuvants. VLPs imitate the three dimensional structures of viruses but are composed of recombinant proteins and therefore, are believed incapable of causing infection and disease. Our proprietary production technology uses insect cells rather than chicken eggs or mammalian cells. The Companys product targets include vaccines against the H5N1, H9N2 and other subtypes of avian influenza with pandemic potential and against human seasonal influenza as well as other infectious diseases. The Company also has a drug delivery platform based on its micellar nonparticle (MNP) technology, proprietary oil and water nano emulsions used for the topical delivery of drugs. The MNP technology was the basis for the development of the Companys first Food and Drug Administration approved estrogen replacement product, ESTRASORB. During 2005, Novavax transitioned from a specialty pharmaceutical company, which included the sale and marketing of products serving the womens health space, to an innovative, biopharmaceutical company. In October 2005, the Company entered into a License and Supply Agreement for ESTRASORB with Esprit Pharma, Inc. (Esprit). Under these agreements, the Company continues to manufacture ESTRASORB and Esprit has an exclusive license to sell ESTRASORB in North America. In April 2006, the Company entered into a License and Development Agreement and a Supply Agreement with Esprit to co develop, supply and commercialize the Companys MNP based testosterone product candidate for the treatment of female hypoactive sexual desire disorder. Esprit was granted exclusive rights to market the product in North America. The Company has a unique blend of capabilities consisting of formulation technologies, vaccine technologies and drug development infrastructure, including clinical and commercial production facilities. We are leveraging our capabilities to develop differentiated, value added vaccine products and licensing them at various stages of development to realize their value. Summary of Significant Transactions License and Development Agreement and Supply Agreement with Espirit Pharma, Inc. In October 2005, we entered into License and Supply Agreements for ESTRASORB with Esprit Pharma, Inc. Under the License Agreement, Esprit obtained exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America and we will continue to manufacture ESTRASORB. In consideration for the rights granted, Esprit paid us a minimum cash consideration of $12.5 million: $2.0 million which was paid at closing, $8.0 million which was paid in December 2005, and $2.5 million which was paid in October 2006 on the first anniversary date of the License Agreement. We receive royalties on all net sales of ESTRASORB as well as milestone payments based on specific pre determined net sales levels of ESTRASORB. In 2005, we wrote off $2.2 million, the remaining net balance of the intangible asset for ESTRASORB rights at the date of the transaction. As part of this transaction, Esprit also paid us $0.3 million for inventory and sales and promotional materials for which we had a book value of $0.4 million. We incurred $20,000 of fees related to this transaction and recorded a gain of $10.1 million. In April 2006, we entered into a License and Development Agreement and a Supply Agreement with Esprit to co develop, supply and commercialize our MNP testosterone product candidate for the treatment of female 29 hypoactive sexual desire disorder. Under the terms of the License and Development Agreement, Esprit was granted exclusive rights to market any products developed and approved in North America. We will receive a royalty on all net sales of the product as well as milestone payments on specific pre determined clinical and regulatory milestones. Esprit will be responsible for all development costs and will lead all clinical programs. Under the term of the Supply Agreement, we will be responsible for manufacturing any product. Sublease Agreement with PuriCore, Inc. In April 2006, we entered into a sublease agreement with Sterilox Technologies, Inc. (now known as PuriCore, Inc.) to sublease 20,469 square feet of the Companys Malvern, Pennsylvania corporate headquarters at a premium price per square foot. The new sublease, with a commencement date of July 1, 2006, expires on September 30, 2009. This sublease is consistent with our strategic focus to increase our presence in Rockville, Maryland, where our vaccine operations are currently located. In line with that strategy, in October 2006, we entered into a lease for an additional 51,000 square feet in Rockville, Maryland. Accordingly, in October 2006, the Company entered into an Amendment to the Sublease Agreement with PuriCore, Inc. to sublease an additional 7,500 square feet of the Malvern corporate headquarters at a premium price per square foot. This amendment has a commencement date of October 25, 2006 and expires concurrent with the initial lease on September 30, 2009. License Agreement Renewal with IGI, Inc. In December 2005, we received a $1,000,000 payment from IGI, Inc. in accordance with an option in a licensing agreement signed between the Company and IGI in December 1995. This payment gives IGI a ten year renewal on licensed technologies in specific fields and was recorded as licensing fee income for the year ended December 31, 2005. Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC (the Pharmelle Transaction) In September 2005, as part of the Companys strategic repositioning, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC for the sale of assets related to the AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products, as well as assets relating to certain formerly marketed products. The assets sold included, but were not limited to, intellectual property, the New Drug Application for AVC products, inventory and sales and promotional materials. In connection with the sale, Pharmelle agreed to assume (i) those liabilities and obligations arising after the closing date of the transaction in connection with the performance by Pharmelle of certain assumed contracts, (ii) those liabilities and obligations arising after the closing date in connection with products sold by Pharmelle after the closing date or the operation of the business relating to such products or the assets after such date (including any product liability claims associated with such products), and (iii) all liability and responsibility for returns of the products made after the closing date, regardless of when such products were produced, manufactured or sold. In consideration for the sale of these assets, Pharmelle paid us $2.5 million in cash and assumed the liabilities noted above. In addition, we are entitled to royalties on AVC for a five year period if net sales exceed certain levels. During 2005, we wrote off $1.1 million, the net balance of the intangible assets related to the AVC product acquisition and $0.3 million of inventory, recorded a $0.3 million liability for future obligations and recorded a gain on the transaction of $0.8 million. In July 2006, we entered into an amendment to the Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC, to revise the royalty formula. We are now entitled to royalties on AVC products for a five year period based on a percentage of gross margins if net sales exceed certain levels. We did not record any royalty income under this agreement during 2006. Pharmelle has sold the asset and assigned the Asset Purchase Agreement to Azur Pharma Inc. in early 2007. 30 Equity Financing Transactions In March 2006, we completed an agent led equity offering of 5,205,480 shares of common stock at $7.30 per share, for gross proceeds of $38.0 million. The stock was offered and sold pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement. Net proceeds were approximately $36.1 million. In February 2006, we completed an offering of 4,597,700 shares of common stock at $4.35 per share for gross proceeds of $20.0 million to a group of institutional investors including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Prospect Venture Partners. The stock was offered and sold pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement. Net proceeds were approximately $19.9 million. In November 2005, we completed an agent led offering of 4,186,047 shares of common stock at $4.30 per share, for gross proceeds of $18.0 million. The stock was issued pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement with net proceeds of approximately $17.0 million. In July 2005, we completed an agent led offering of 4,000,000 shares of common stock at $1.00 per share, for gross proceeds of $4.0 million. The stock was issued pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement with net proceeds of approximately $3.6 million. Convertible Notes Conversion In March 2006, certain holders of $7.0 million principal amount of our 4.75% senior convertible notes due July 15, 2009 exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest of $68,000 into 1,294,564 shares of Novavax common stock, at the per share conversion price of $5.46. This reduced the aggregated principal of such notes outstanding from $29.0 million to $22.0 million at December 31, 2006. In October 2005, certain holders of $6.0 million face amount of our 4.75% senior convertible notes due July 15, 2009 exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest of $81,000 into 1,070,635 shares of Novavax common stock, at the per share conversion price of $5.68. This reduced the aggregate principal amount of such notes outstanding from $35.0 million to $29.0 million at December 31, 2005. Restructuring of the Sales Force From March through August 2005, we implemented measures to reduce costs associated with our commercial operations by downsizing and then eliminating our sales force to correspond with our strategy of transitioning from a commercial business model to one focused on our core competency of new product development. The March 2005 restructuring reduced our sales force from 100 to 47 employees and the August restructuring eliminated the remaining sales force. Included in 2005 sales and marketing expenses is $0.4 million related to these two restructurings. Cancellation of King Pharmaceuticals Agreements In January 2001, we entered into a co promotion agreement with King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King) for our topical estrogen therapy, ESTRASORB, in the U.S. and Puerto Rico (the Territory). We also entered into a license agreement with King for many countries outside the U.S. The co promotion and license agreements (the Agreements) granted King the right to share equally in the revenues and expenses for manufacturing and marketing ESTRASORB in the Territory and exclusive rights to many countries outside the U.S. The Agreements also entitled us to up to $5.0 million in milestone payments from King for achievement of milestones outlined in the Agreements. In June 2001, we amended the Agreements (the Amended Agreements). The Amended Agreements clarified the terms of two milestone payments totaling $5.0 million. The Amended Agreements also granted King exclusive rights to promote, market and distribute ESTRASORB in Canada, Switzerland, Greece, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands, the only countries excluded from the original license agreement. In addition, the Amended Agreements included the co promotion and license of a topical testosterone therapy for testosterone deficient women that was in development. 31 In July 2004, we mutually agreed to terminate the Amended Agreements (the King Transaction). The King Transaction included the return to us of all worldwide rights for ESTRASORB and the MNP testosterone product candidate, as well as all rights to other womens health products that we may successfully develop utilizing the MNP technology. The King Transaction also included the redemption of $40.0 million of our convertible notes held by King. Additionally, we hired 50 members of Kings womens health sales force to provide competitive sales force coverage. As part of this transaction, we paid King a net of $14.0 million in cash and issued King 3,775,610 shares of common stock, which at the time of closing were valued at approximately $18.1 million. The King Transaction resulted in a gain on the redemption of the convertible notes held by King of $11.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This gain was determined based on the fair value of the convertible notes plus accrued interest as of the transaction date compared to the notes total book value. In addition, an intangible asset for ESTRASORB rights of $2.5 million was recorded, which represents the difference between assets and liabilities acquired or written off, the net cash paid in the transaction, the common stock issued and transaction fees and expenses. The recorded intangible was determined to be a fair value for the rights re acquired based on the sales levels of ESTRASORB, the status of obtaining product approvals outside the U.S. and the deferred further development of the MNP testosterone product candidate. Included in the assets and liabilities written off were deferred financing costs of $0.4 million relating to the convertible notes held by King, and remaining deferred revenue of $2.2 million relating to previous licensing fees for ESTRASORB, mentioned above. Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Such accounting principles require that our management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. The items in our consolidated financial statements that have required us to make significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Revenue Recognition and Allowances The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulleting No. 104, Revenue Recognition (SAB No. 104). For product sales, revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. The Company establishes allowances for estimated uncollectible amounts, product returns, rebates and charge backs based on historical trends and specifically identified problem accounts. A large part of the Companys product sales are to Esprit or to distributors who resell the products to their customers. The Company provides rebates to members of certain buying groups who purchase from the Companys distributors, to distributors that sell to their customers at prices determined under a contract between the Company and the customer, and to state agencies that administer various programs such as the federal Medicaid and Medicare programs. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases or by reference to a specific price for a product. The Company estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of revenue when the Company records our sale of the products. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from three to 12 months after sale. The Company regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends, distributor inventory levels, product prescription data and generic competition and makes adjustments to the recorded reserves for changes in trends, distributor inventory levels, product prescription data and generic competition and makes adjustments to the recorded reserves based on such information. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC, the Company no longer has responsibility for rebates or returns related to AVCtm Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart as of the date of the sales of such assets. Under the License and Supply Agreements with Esprit Pharma, Inc., the Company 32 no longer has responsibility for rebates related to ESTRASORB or returns related to ESTRASORB sales made subsequent to entering into the License Agreement on October 19, 2005. The shipping and handling costs the Company incurs are included in cost of products sold in its statements of operations. For upfront payments and licensing fees related to contract research or technology, the Company follows the provisions of SAB No. 104 in determining if these payments and fees represent the culmination of a separate earnings process or if they should be deferred and recognized as revenue as earned over the life of the related agreement. Milestone payments are recognized as revenue upon achievement of contract specified events and when there are no remaining performance obligations. Revenue earned under research contracts is recognized in accordance with the terms and conditions of such contracts for reimbursement of costs incurred and defined milestones. Stock Based Compensation Prior to January 1, 2006, the Companys equity based employee compensation cost under its various stock incentive and option plans was accounted for under the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations, as permitted by Standard of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123) Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised), Accounting for Stock based Payment (SFAS No. 123R) using the modified prospective method. This standard requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity share options granted based on the grant date fair value of options. The cost is recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period of the options. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Such costs include internal research and development expenditures (such as salaries and benefits, raw materials and supplies) and contracted services (such as sponsored research, consulting and testing services) of proprietary research and development activities and similar expenses associate with collaborative research agreements. Income Taxes The Companys income taxes are accounted for using the liability method. Under the liability method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and operating loss carry forward. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of changes in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The Company has provided a full valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill originally results from business acquisitions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair values; the excess of the purchase price over the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Other intangible assets are a result of product acquisitions, non compete arrangements and internally discovered patents. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to impairment tests annually, or more frequently should indicators of impairment arise. The Company utilizes a discounted cash flow analysis that includes profitability information, estimated future operating results, trends and other information in assessing whether the value of the indefinite lived intangible assets can be recovered. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill 33 impairment is deemed to exist if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 142, the Company initially tested its goodwill for impairment as of January 1, 2002 and determined that no impairment was present. The Company thereafter performed the required annual impairment test as of December 31 of each year on the carrying amount of its goodwill. The Company evaluates the recoverability of the carrying value of its long lived assets and identifiable intangibles periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the recoverability of the carrying value of an asset should be assessed include but are not limited to the following: a significant decrease in the market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant physical change in an asset, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of an asset, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, a current period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses, and or a projection of forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associate with an asset used for the purpose of producing revenue. The Company considers historical performance and anticipated future results in its evaluation of potential impairment. Accordingly, when indicators of impairment are present, the Company evaluates the carrying value of these assets in relation to the operating performance of the business and future discounted and undiscounted cash flows is less than the assets carrying value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Other than the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised), Accounting for Stock Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), there have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since December 31, 2005, nor have we adopted any accounting policy that has or will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion of our accounting policies see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herewith. SFAS No. 123R As of January 1, 2006 (effective date), we adopted SFAS No. 123R in accounting for stock options issued to our employees, directors and consultants using the modified prospective method. The modified prospective method requires that compensation costs be recognized for all share based payments granted after the effective date and for all awards granted prior to the effective date that are unvested using the requirements of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we accounted for our stock based compensation using the principles of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB No. 25) as permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123). APB No. 25 generally did not require that options granted to employees be expensed. Since we elected to use the modified prospective method, there are no one time effects from the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, such as a cumulative effect adjustment. There were no modifications to outstanding stock options as of December 31, 2005 and 2006. There have been no changes in the quantity or type of instruments used in share based payment programs. There has been no material modifications to the valuation methodologies or assumptions from those used in estimating the fair value of options under SFAS No. 123 other than the adjustments for expected volatility. Prior to the adoption of SFAS. No. 123R, we utilized the preceding 12 month period historical stock prices in determining the expected volatility. With the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we use the historical volatilities based on stock prices since the inception of the stock plans in determining the expected volatility. Forfeiture rates are estimated based on historical activities since the inception of the stock plans. There have been no changes in the normal terms of share based payments agreements. For grants awarded prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for compensation cost using a graded method. For grants awarded on or after January 1, 2006, we accounted for compensation cost using a straight line method. As December 31, 2006, the aggregate fair value of the remaining compensation cost of unvested options, as determined using a Black Scholes option valuation model, was approximately $2.4 million (net of estimated forfeitures). This remaining compensation costs is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years. 34 The effects of adopting SFAS No. 123R are recorded as compensation costs in the operating costs and expenses as follows: Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2006 (In thousands) Cost of products sold (which includes idle capacity) $ 48 Research and development 547 General and administrative 1,167 Total effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R $ 1,776 SFAS No. 157 In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, but does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 will become effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating what impact, if any, SFAS No. 157 will have on our financial conditions, results or operations or liquidity. SAB No. 108 In September 2006, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulleting No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB No. 108). SAB No. 108 was issued to provide consistency between how registrants quantify financial statement misstatements and requires us to quantify financial statement misstatements and requires us to quantify misstatements based on their impact on each of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosure. SAB No. 108 is effective as of the end of our 2006 fiscal year, allowing a one time transitional cumulative effect adjustment to retained earning as of January 1, 2006 for errors that were not previously deemed material, but are material under the guidance in SAB No. 108. The adoption of this SAB did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. FIN 48 In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes: an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) FIN 48, which clarifies Statement 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes the criterion that an individual tax position has to meet for some or all of the benefits of that position to be recognized in the Companys financial statements. On initial application, FIN 48 will be applied to all tax positions for which the statute of limitations remains open. Only tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold at the adoption date will be recognized or continue to be recognized. The cumulative effect of applying FIN 48 will be reported as an adjustment to retained earnings at the beginning of the period in which it is adopted. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and will be adopted by the Company on January 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating what impact, if any, adopting FIN 48 will have on our consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 159 In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 provides companies an option to report certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The intent of SFAS No. 159 is to reduce the complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets 35 and liabilities differently. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years after November 15, 2007. The Company is evaluating the impact this new standard will have on its financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations for Fiscal Years 2006, 2005 and 2004 (In thousands, except percentage changes and share and per share information) The following is a discussion of the historical consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Novavax, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the Companys forward looking statements is contained from time to time in the Companys SEC filings. 2006 2005 Change from 2005 Change from 2004 2004 Revenues: Total net product sales $ 2,501 $ (2,048 ) (45 )% $ 4,549 $ (1,848 ) (29 )% $ 6,397 Contract research and development 1,886 88 5 % 1,798 60 3 % 1,738 Royalties, milestone and licensing fees 296 (745 ) (72 )% 1,041 916 733 % 125 $ 4,683 $ (2,705 ) (37 )% $ 7,388 $ (872 ) (11 )% $ 8,260 Revenues for 2006 consisted of product sales of $2.5 million compared to $4.6 million in 2005; contract research and development revenues of $1.9 million in 2006 compared to $1.8 million in 2005; and royalties, milestone and licensing fees of $0.3 million in 2006 compared to $1.0 million in 2005. Total revenues for 2006 were $4.7 million as compared to $7.4 million for 2005, a decrease of $2.7 million or 37%. The primary reason for this decrease in revenues was the divestiture of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005 and the licensing of exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit Pharma, Inc. in October 2005. Under the terms of the License and Supply Agreements with Esprit, the Company agreed to manufacture and supply ESTRASORB. As a result, product sales for 2006 consist primarily of ESTRASORB sales to Esprit under the October 2005 Supply Agreement and commercial Gynodiol sales. Included in ESTRASORB net sales for 2006 was a $(0.2) million adjustment to the ESTRASORB sales return allowance for product sold commercially prior to the licensing of ESTRASORB to Esprit. ESTRASORB sales were lower than expected for 2006 due to weak market demand for this product. During 2006, Esprit established several marketing programs for ESTRASORB that they anticipate will increase market demand. Contract research and development revenues for 2006 totaled $1.9 million as compared to 2005 contract research and development revenues of $1.8 million. Revenues in the current year were recognized under a National Institutes of Health (NIH) grant to develop a second generation HIV/AIDS vaccine, three manufacturing contracts and one additional government contract. Royalties, milestone and licensing fees for 2006 consisted of $0.3 million from royalties pursuant to the License Agreement with Esprit Pharma for ESTRASORB. This represents a $0.7 million decrease from $1.0 million in royalties, milestones and license fees for 2005 which consisted of a $1.0 million renewal fee received from IGI, Inc. in December 2005 in accordance with an option in a licensing agreement signed between the Company and IGI in December 1995. This payment gives IGI a ten year renewal on licensed technologies in specific fields. Revenues for 2005 consisted of product sales of $4.5 million compared to $6.4 million in 2004; contract research revenues of $1.8 million compared to $1.7 million in 2004; and royalties, milestone and licensing fees of $1.0 million in 2005 compared to $0.1 million in 2004. Total revenues for 2005 were $7.4 million compared to $8.3 million for 2004, a decrease of $0.9 million or 11%. Of the total decrease in revenues, product sales accounted 36 for $1.8 million partially offset by a $0.9 million increase in royalties, milestone and licensing fees. The reason for the net decrease in net product sales is primarily due to the following: In September 2005, we entered into the Pharmelle Transaction for the sale of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products. As a result, the 2005 vitamin and AVC product sales only reflect a partial year of revenues for these product lines. During 2005, the vitamin lines continued to be negatively impacted by generic products and new product competition. Sales of Gynodiol in 2005 were lower than the prior year primarily due to an out of stock situation for certain prescription strengths. In October 2005, we entered into the Esprit Transaction. Under these agreements, Esprit obtained exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America and the Company agreed to manufacture and sell ESTRASORB to Esprit for a lower price than what we previously sold ESTRASORB to our distributors. 2005 ESTRASORB net product sales include sales to our distributors through the date of this agreement and to Esprit after this date. Contract research revenues in 2005 totaled $1.8 million compared to 2004 contract research revenues of $1.7 million. Royalties, milestone and licensing fees increased by $0.9 million from $0.1 million in 2004 to $1.0 million in 2005 primarily due to a $1.0 million license renewal fee received from IGI, Inc. for a ten year renewal on licensed technologies in specific fields. Operating Costs and Expenses: 2006 2005 Change from Change from 2005 2004 2004 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of products sold $ 4,924 $ (867 ) (15 )% $ 5,791 $ 2,301 66 % $ 3,490 Excess inventory costs over market 1,549 30 2 % 1,519 1,519 100 % Research and development 11,529 6,454 127 % 5,075 (2,294 ) (31 )% 7,369 Selling and marketing 101 (6,819 ) (99 )% 6,920 (16,668 ) (71 )% 23,588 General and administrative 11,187 3,073 38 % 8,114 (602 ) (7 )% 8,716 Facility exit costs (105 ) (100 )% 105 (618 ) (85 )% 723 Gain on sales of product assets 10,965 100 % (10,965 ) (10,965 ) (100 )% Gain on redemption of debt 11,162 100 % (11,162 ) $ 29,290 $ 12,731 77 % $ 16,559 $ (16,165 ) (50 )% $ 32,724 Cost of Products Sold and Idle Capacity Cost of products sold, which includes fixed idle capacity costs at our manufacturing facility, decreased to $4.9 million in 2006 compared to $5.8 million in 2005. Of the $4.9 million cost of products sold for 2006, $2.5 million was due to idle capacity costs at our manufacturing facility compared to $3.2 million in 2005. The remaining $2.4 million primarily represents the cost of ESTRASORB sales to Esprit under our October 2005 Supply Agreement, Gynodiol cost of products sold and costs related to manufacturing contracts. Of the $5.8 million cost of products sold for 2005, $3.2 million was due to idle capacity at our manufacturing facility. Idle capacity costs for 2005 were $0.7 million higher than in 2006 due partially to the accounting of excess inventory costs over market in 2006, which is discussed in more detail below. Other factors contributing to the decrease in cost of products sold was lower production volumes, the divestiture of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005, and lower Gynodiol sales in 2006 when compared to the prior year. 37 Cost of products sold, which includes fixed idle capacity costs at our manufacturing facility, increased to $5.8 million in 2005, compared to $3.5 million in 2004, a 66% increase. Of the $5.8 million cost of products sold for 2005, $3.2 million was due to idle plant capacity costs at our manufacturing facility compared to $0.7 million in 2004. The remaining $2.6 million increase was primarily due to ESTRASORB, which accounted for 45% of net product sales in 2005, as opposed to 28% of net product sales in 2004, and carries a much higher cost of product sold than our other products. ESTRASORB cost of product sold percentages have been and will continue to be high until we increase production volumes for both ESTRASORB and other manufactured products to offset the fixed costs and depreciation related to the manufacturing facility, on going facility costs and costs associated with the personnel required to manufacture products at this facility. With the sale of vitamin and AVC lines, future cost of products sold will correspond to our ESTRASORB sales to Esprit, Gynodiol sales to distributors and manufacturing costs related to other products produced at our manufacturing facility. Until this facility reaches maximum capacity fixed idle capacity costs will continue to be included in cost of products sold. Excess Inventory Costs over Market As part of the October 2005 License and Supply Agreement for ESTRASORB, we agreed to manufacture and sell ESTRASORB to Esprit Pharma, Inc. at a price that was lower than our current production costs for the inventory manufactured and sold. These excess costs over the fixed price are being paid under the Supply Agreement with Esprit totaled $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $1.5 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. It is most likely we will continue to manufacture ESTRASORB at a loss until production volumes increase or we enter into additional contract manufacturing agreements with third parties to more fully utilize our manufacturing facilitys capacity. The current facility is able to accommodate much greater production than is currently scheduled, which, if more fully utilized, would offset the fixed costs related to the manufacturing process and facility. In addition, we are negotiating revisions to our agreements for packaging costs of ESTRASORB as well as our fixed lease costs for the manufacturing facility. If these negotiations result in higher packaging or facility lease costs for us, it may have a material adverse impact on future operating and financial results. Research and Development Expenses Research and development costs increased from $5.1 million in 2005 to $11.5 million in 2006, an increase of$6.5 million or 127%. This increase was due primarily to higher research and development spending to support our strategic focus on creating differentiated, value added vaccines that leverage the Companys proprietary virus like particle (VLP) technology. Research and development expenses were significantly higher in 2006 due to increases in personnel, facility and outside testing costs (including sponsored research and consulting agreements) associated with expanded preclinical testing and process development, manufacturing and quality related programs necessary to move the Companys influenza vaccine candidates into clinical testing. Also contributing to this increase was the recognition of $0.5 million of non cash compensation costs resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in 2006, using the modified prospective method, while no costs were recorded in 2005 utilizing the accounting recognition methods under APB No. 25. Research and development costs decreased from $7.4 million in 2004 to $5.1 million in 2005. The decrease of $2.3 million or 31% was due to manufacturing start up costs in 2004 being accounted for as research and development expense until April 2004. Manufacturing costs in the first quarter of 2004 totaling $1.7 million were incurred to prepare and validate the ESTRASORB facility for current Good Manufacturing Practices and FDA compliance and not to build inventory. Beginning in April 2004, manufacturing costs were included in cost of sales and inventory. Vaccine contract research costs, which are included in total research and development expenses, decreased from $3.2 million in 2004 to $2.6 million in 2005. This decrease was due to higher costs reimbursed or paid under a government contract in 2004, as well as a reduction in facility costs for 2005. Estimated Cost and Time to Complete Major Projects The expenditures that will be necessary to execute our business plan are subject to numerous uncertainties, which may adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. As of December 31, 2006, our proprietary product and vaccine candidates were in early stages of development. Due to the inherent nature of product development, future market demand for products and factors outside of our control, such as clinical results and regulatory 38 approvals, we are unable to estimate the completion dates and the estimated total costs for those product candidates. The duration and the cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of differences arising during clinical trial protocol, including, but not limited to, the following: number of patients that ultimately participate in the trial; duration of the patient follow up that seems appropriate in view of the results; number of clinical sites included in the trials; and length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects. In addition, we test our potential products and vaccines in numerous preclinical studies to identify, among other things, the daily dosage amounts. We may conduct multiple clinical trials to cover a variety of indications for each product candidate. As we obtain results for our trials we may elect to discontinue clinical trials for certain product candidates or indications. We further believe that it is not possible to predict the length of regulatory approval time. Factors that are outside our control could significantly delay the approval and marketability of our product candidates. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above and other risks and uncertainties, the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects are difficult to estimate and are subject to numerous variations. Our inability to complete our research and development projects in a timely manner could significantly increase our capital requirements and could adversely impact our liquidity. These uncertainties could force us to seek external sources of financing from time to time in order to continue pursuing our business strategy. For more discussion of the risks and uncertainties and our liquidity, see Item 1A Risk Factors and see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses were $101,000 in 2006 compared to $6.9 million in 2005. This decrease of $6.8 million, or 99%, was due to our strategy of transitioning from a specialty pharmaceutical company, which included the sale and marketing of products serving the womens health space, to an innovative, biopharmaceutical company focused on creating differentiated, value added vaccines that leverage the Companys proprietary VLP technology. With the sale of our vitamin and AVC lines to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005 and the licensing of ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit in October 2005, our ongoing selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs related to sales of Gynodiol. These ongoing costs should be minimal. Selling and marketing expenses were $6.9 million in 2005 compared to $23.6 million in 2004. This significant decrease of $16.7 million, or 71%, was due to the reduction of the Companys sales force in March 2005 and the elimination of its remaining sales force in August 2005. This corresponded with our strategy of transitioning from a commercial business model to that of one focused on our core competency of new product development. With the sale of our vitamin and AVC lines to Pharmelle and the licensing of ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit, the only remaining product that we are selling directly to our distributors is Gynodiol. General and Administrative General and administrative costs were $11.2 million in 2006 compared to $8.1 million in 2005. This $3.1 million increase was partially due to $1.2 million of non cash compensation costs resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in 2006, using the modified prospective method, while no costs were recorded in 2005 utilizing the accounting recognition methods under APB No. 25. Other factors contributing to this increase were higher personnel, legal and consulting costs related to the Companys VLP based vaccine development programs. The Company took steps to strengthen its intellectual property portfolio and initiate business development and commercial assessment activities related to its new vaccine development strategy. Also included in 2006 is a $167,000 reserve against a note receivable and its corresponding accrued interest due from a former director of the Company. This reserve represents the difference between the book value of the receivables less the market value of the pledged shares of common stock of the Company as of December 31, 2006. The Company also made a loan to another director which is due to mature on March 21, 2007. 39 Included in 2005 general and administrative expense was a $400,000 offset for Opportunity Grant funds received from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for the reimbursement of certain costs incurred with the move of our corporate headquarters and product development activities from Maryland to Pennsylvania. As a result of the Companys recent decision to relocate its corporate headquarters and vaccine development activities back to Maryland, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has demanded repayment of the $400,000 Opportunity Grant received in 2005. The Company has recorded a liability in 2006 reflecting its obligation to repay this amount. General and administrative costs were $8.1 million in 2005 compared to $8.7 million in 2004. This $0.6 million decrease, or 7%, is primarily due to receiving $0.4 million from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for the reimbursement of certain costs incurred with the move to our corporate headquarters and product development activities to Malvern, Pennsylvania as well as cost saving measures implemented in 2004 and 2005. This decrease was partially offset by increases in legal fees and business development costs, related to strategic initiatives. Other Operating Costs and Expenses In 2005, we recorded gains on sales of product assets totaling $11.0 million, which consisted of a $10.1 million gain from the licensing of exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit Pharma, Inc. in October 2005 and a $0.9 million gain from the divestiture of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005. In 2004, we recorded a one time gain on the redemption of convertible notes held by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of $11.2 million related to the King Transaction (see Summary of Significant Transactions). A charge for facility exit costs of $0.7 million was recorded in 2004. As previously described, in September 2004 we moved to Malvern, Pennsylvania to consolidate and expand our corporate headquarters and product development activities. We vacated our facility in Columbia, Maryland and recorded a liability of $0.2 million for lease termination costs and wrote off the net value of the Columbia leasehold assets of $0.5 million. A further adjustment was made in 2005 of $0.1 million for additional contract termination costs. Interest Income/(Expense): 2006 2005 Change from 2005 Change from 2004 2004 Interest income (expense) Interest income $ 3,267 $ 2,937 890 % $ 330 $ 12 4 % $ 318 Interest expense (1,727 ) (606 ) (26 )% (2,333 ) 489 27 % (1,844 ) $ 1,540 $ 3,543 177 % $ (2,003 ) $ 477 31 % $ (1,526 ) Interest income was $3.3 million in 2006 and $0.3 million in 2005 and 2004. This increase in interest income was due primarily to significantly higher investment balances resulting from the net proceeds from three equity financing transactions during the fourth quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 which totaled $73.0 million as well as higher interest rates. Interest expense was $1.7 million in 2006, $2.3 million in 2005 and $1.8 million in 2004. Interest expense relates primarily to the convertible notes with King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of $40.0 million in 2003 through July 2004, at which time these notes were redeemed and the Company issued new 4.75% senior convertible notes totaling $35.0 million to a group of institutional investors. In October 2005, certain holders of $6.0 million face amount of the convertible notes exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest into 1,070,635 shares of Novavax common stock. This reduced the aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes outstanding to $29.0 million as of December 31, 2005. In March 2006, certain holders of $7.0 million face amount of the convertible notes exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest into 1,294,564 shares of Novavax common stock. This further reduced the aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes outstanding to $22.0 million as of December 31, 2006. Included in interest expense for 2005 and 2006 is a $0.3 million and a $0.3 million write off of deferred financing costs that corresponds to the conversion of $6.0 million in convertible debt in 2005 and $7.0 million in convertible debt in 2006. Also included in interest 40 expense for 2006, 2005 and 2004 is $0.3 million, $0.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively, of amortization of deferred financing costs that corresponds to the issuance of the 4.75% senior convertible notes in 2004. Net Losses: 2006 2005 Change from Change from 2005 2004 2004 Net loss $ (23,068 ) $ (11,894 ) (106 )% $ (11,174 ) $ 14,746 57 % $ (25,920 ) Net loss per share $ (0.39 ) $ (0.13 ) (50 )% $ (0.26 ) $ 0.44 63 % $ (0.70 ) Weighted shares outstanding 58,664,365 42,758,302 36,926,034 Net loss for 2006 was $23.1 million or $(0.39) per share, as compared to $11.2 million or $(0.26) per share for 2005, an increase of $11.9 million. The increased loss was primarily due to the gain on sales of product assets totaling $11.0 million recorded in 2005. Also contributing to this higher loss in 2006 was a $2.7 million decrease in revenues, a $1.9 million increase in operating costs and expenses in support of the Companys new vaccine development strategy and $0.1 million in facility exit costs offset by a $2.9 million increase in interest income and a $0.6 million decrease in interest expense, all previously discussed. Net loss for 2005 was $11.2 million or $(0.26) per share, as compared to $25.9 million or $(0.70) per share for 2004, a decrease of $14.7 million, or $0.44 per share. The decreased loss in 2005 was due to the gain on sales of product assets of $11.0 million, a decrease of $15.7 million in operating expenses and $0.6 million in facility exit costs, partially offset by the $0.9 million decrease in 2005 revenues, the gain on redemption of convertible debt held by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of $11.2 million and an increase of $0.5 million in interest expense, all previously discussed. Weighted shares outstanding increased from 36.9 million shares in 2004 to 58.7 million shares in 2006 due primarily to the equity financing transactions in the second half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 coupled with the conversion of $13.0 million of senior convertible notes into shares of Novavax common stock during this same period. In addition, exercises of stock options and issuance of restricted stock as compensation also contributed to this increase in weighted shares outstanding. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors including but not limited to, the commitments and progress of our research and development programs, the progress of preclinical and clinical testing, the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, and manufacturing costs related to ESTRASORB. We plan to continue to have multiple vaccines and products in various stages of development and we believe our research and development as well as general administrative expenses and capital requirements will continue to exceed our revenues. Future activities, particularly vaccine and product development, 41 are subject to our ability to raise funds through debt or equity financing, or collaborative arrangements with industry partners and government agencies. Year Ended December 31, 2006 (In thousands) Summary of Cash Flows: Net cash (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (14,810 ) Investing activities (66,815 ) Financing activities 56,893 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (24,732 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 31,893 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ $7,161 In addition to revenues of $20.3 million during the three year period ended December 31, 2006, we have funded our operations primarily from the following activities: Net Proceeds (in Millions) 2004 2005 2006 Total Sales of common stock in public offerings, net $ $ 20.7 $ 56.0 $ 76.7 Sales of common stock in a private placement 4.7 4.7 Sales of product assets 12.7 12.7 License payments received 1.0 2.5 2.5 Issuance of convertible notes 32.9 32.9 Uses associated with the King Transaction (15.0 ) (15.0 ) Exercise of stock options and warrants 0.4 0.4 1.7 2.5 $ 23.0 $ 34.8 $ 60.2 $ 117.0 As of December 31, 2006, we held $73.6 million in cash and investments as compared to $31.9 million at December 31, 2005. Of the $41.7 million increase in cash and investments during 2006, $56.7 million was obtained from financing activities, primarily reflecting proceeds of $56.0 million from the issuance of common stock and $1.7 million from purchases under the Companys stock incentive programs offset by debt repayments of $0.7 million; $14.8 million was used for operating activities, consisting of a net loss of $23.1 million, as previously discussed, offset by non cash activities of $5.6 million and $2.7 million generated by the change in operating assets and liabilities; and $1.5 million was used for investing activities (exclusive of short term investment purchases, sales and maturities) consisting of general capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2006, our working capital was $72.0 million compared to $32.7 million as of December 31, 2005. This $39.3 million increase primarily reflects the $56.0 million net proceeds from two equity financing transactions that occurred during the first quarter of 2006, $1.7 million from the exercise of stock options offset by $17.7 million in operating and capital investment activities and $0.7 million in principal payments on our outstanding debt obligations. We intend to use the proceeds from our recent equity financing transactions for general corporate purposes, including but not limited to our internal research and development programs, such as preclinical and clinical testing and studies for our vaccine and other product candidates, the development of new technologies, capital improvements and general working capital. In the first quarter of 2007, we entered into sponsored research and licensing arrangements with two academic institutions to conduct early stage research in the vaccine area. These and similar arrangements that we may enter into may aggregate to a material amount of research and development spending that will accelerate the use of such proceeds. We will continue to fund our operations through product licensing, co development arrangements on new products, or the public or private sale of securities of the Company. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional capital or, if such capital is available, that the terms of any financing will be satisfactory to the Company. 42 As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $22 million of senior convertible notes outstanding (the Notes). The Notes carry a 4.75% coupon; are currently convertible into shares of Novavax common stock at $5.46 per share; and mature on July 19, 2009. The Note holders have the right to redeem all or a portion of the Notes if the weighted average price of the Companys common stock is less than the then applicable conversion price (currently $5.46 per share) of the Companys common stock on each of 30 trading days out of the 40 consecutive trading days immediately prior to either the third anniversary (July 19, 2007) or the fourth anniversary (July 19, 2008) of the issue date of the Notes. If the Note holders exercise their optional redemption right, the Company may elect to pay up to 50 per cent of the outstanding Notes being redeemed in shares of Common Stock. The redemption of the Companys senior convertible notes would have an adverse effect on the Companys current cash position and its ability to fund its operations. Based on our assessment of the availability of capital and our business operations as currently contemplated, in the absence of new financings, any potential redemption of Notes, licensing arrangements or partnership agreements, we believe we will have adequate capital resources into the second half of 2008. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will continue to assess our capital resources and we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our product research and development programs, downsize our organization, or reduce general and administrative infrastructure. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We utilize different financing instruments, such as debt and operating leases, to finance various equipment and facility needs. The following table summarizes our current financing obligations and commitments (in thousands) as of December 31, 2006: Less than 1 3 4 5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Commitments & Obligations Convertible notes $ 22,000 $ $ 22,000 $ $ Operating leases 9,419 1,660 5,062 2,588 109 Notes payable 1,189 731 458 Manufacturing facility lease 2,460 1,140 1,320 Total principal payments 35,068 3,531 28,840 2,588 109 Less: Subleases (1,315 ) (479 ) (836 ) Net principal payments 33,753 3,052 28,004 2,588 109 Interest 2,696 1,072 1,624 Total commitments & obligations $ 36,449 $ 4,124 $ 29,628 $ 2,588 $ 109 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company is not involved in any off balance sheet agreements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on its financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $73.6 million as follows: Cash and cash equivalents $ 7.2 million Short term investments $ 66.4 million Our exposure to market risk is confined to our investment portfolio. We maintain an investment portfolio of investment grade government agency notes and corporate bonds. The securities in our investment portfolio are classified as held until maturity securities and are, due to their predominantly short term nature, subject to minimal 43 interest rate risk. While we do not believe that an increase in market rates of interest would have any significant negative impact on the realizable value of our investment portfolio, changes in interest rates affect the investment income we earn on our investments and, therefore, impact our cash flow and results of operations. We are headquartered in the U.S. where we conduct the vast majority of our business activities. Accordingly, we have not had any material exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a total debt of $23.2 million, most of which bears interest at fixed interest rates. The Company therefore does not believe that it is exposed to any material interest rate risk as a result of its borrowing activities. Information required under this section is also contained in Part I, Item IA of this report and in Item 8 of this report, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Certain statements contained herein or as may otherwise be incorporated by reference herein constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding product sales, royalties, milestone payments and other information related to license agreements and collaboration arrangements, governmental grant applications, future licensing of our products, future product development and related clinical trials, manufacturing capabilities and future research and development, including Food and Drug Administration approval. Such forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, the following: general economic and business conditions; competition; ability to enter into future collaborations; collaborators may delay or terminate their relationship with us; our ability to obtain government funding; unexpected changes in technologies and technological advances; our ability to obtain rights to technology; ability to obtain and enforce patents; ability to commercialize and manufacture products; our ability to maintain commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; results of clinical studies; progress of research and development activities; business abilities and judgment of personnel; our ability to be able to attract and retain qualified personnel; changes in, or failure to comply with, governmental regulations; changes in intellectual property laws, health care legislation or other federal and state laws to which the Company is subject; or substantial indebtedness; the rate at which we utilize capital; our ability to obtain adequate financing in 28 the future through product licensing, co promotional arrangements, public or private equity financing or otherwise; and other factors referenced herein. All forward looking statements contained in this annual report are based on information available to the Company on the date hereof, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward looking statements, except as specifically required by law. Accordingly, past results and trends should not be used to anticipate future results or trends. Overview Novavax, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Novavax or the Company), was incorporated in 1987, and is a biopharmaceutical company focused on creating differentiated, value added vaccines that leverage the Companys proprietary virus like particle (VLP) technology as well as its proprietary Novasomes adjuvants. VLPs imitate the three dimensional structures of viruses but are composed of recombinant proteins and therefore, are believed incapable of causing infection and disease. Our proprietary production technology uses insect cells rather than chicken eggs or mammalian cells. The Companys product targets include vaccines against the H5N1, H9N2 and other subtypes of avian influenza with pandemic potential and against human seasonal influenza as well as other infectious diseases. The Company also has a drug delivery platform based on its micellar nonparticle (MNP) technology, proprietary oil and water nano emulsions used for the topical delivery of drugs. The MNP technology was the basis for the development of the Companys first Food and Drug Administration approved estrogen replacement product, ESTRASORB. During 2005, Novavax transitioned from a specialty pharmaceutical company, which included the sale and marketing of products serving the womens health space, to an innovative, biopharmaceutical company. In October 2005, the Company entered into a License and Supply Agreement for ESTRASORB with Esprit Pharma, Inc. (Esprit). Under these agreements, the Company continues to manufacture ESTRASORB and Esprit has an exclusive license to sell ESTRASORB in North America. In April 2006, the Company entered into a License and Development Agreement and a Supply Agreement with Esprit to co develop, supply and commercialize the Companys MNP based testosterone product candidate for the treatment of female hypoactive sexual desire disorder. Esprit was granted exclusive rights to market the product in North America. The Company has a unique blend of capabilities consisting of formulation technologies, vaccine technologies and drug development infrastructure, including clinical and commercial production facilities. We are leveraging our capabilities to develop differentiated, value added vaccine products and licensing them at various stages of development to realize their value. Summary of Significant Transactions License and Development Agreement and Supply Agreement with Espirit Pharma, Inc. In October 2005, we entered into License and Supply Agreements for ESTRASORB with Esprit Pharma, Inc. Under the License Agreement, Esprit obtained exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America and we will continue to manufacture ESTRASORB. In consideration for the rights granted, Esprit paid us a minimum cash consideration of $12.5 million: $2.0 million which was paid at closing, $8.0 million which was paid in December 2005, and $2.5 million which was paid in October 2006 on the first anniversary date of the License Agreement. We receive royalties on all net sales of ESTRASORB as well as milestone payments based on specific pre determined net sales levels of ESTRASORB. In 2005, we wrote off $2.2 million, the remaining net balance of the intangible asset for ESTRASORB rights at the date of the transaction. As part of this transaction, Esprit also paid us $0.3 million for inventory and sales and promotional materials for which we had a book value of $0.4 million. We incurred $20,000 of fees related to this transaction and recorded a gain of $10.1 million. In April 2006, we entered into a License and Development Agreement and a Supply Agreement with Esprit to co develop, supply and commercialize our MNP testosterone product candidate for the treatment of female 29 hypoactive sexual desire disorder. Under the terms of the License and Development Agreement, Esprit was granted exclusive rights to market any products developed and approved in North America. We will receive a royalty on all net sales of the product as well as milestone payments on specific pre determined clinical and regulatory milestones. Esprit will be responsible for all development costs and will lead all clinical programs. Under the term of the Supply Agreement, we will be responsible for manufacturing any product. Sublease Agreement with PuriCore, Inc. In April 2006, we entered into a sublease agreement with Sterilox Technologies, Inc. (now known as PuriCore, Inc.) to sublease 20,469 square feet of the Companys Malvern, Pennsylvania corporate headquarters at a premium price per square foot. The new sublease, with a commencement date of July 1, 2006, expires on September 30, 2009. This sublease is consistent with our strategic focus to increase our presence in Rockville, Maryland, where our vaccine operations are currently located. In line with that strategy, in October 2006, we entered into a lease for an additional 51,000 square feet in Rockville, Maryland. Accordingly, in October 2006, the Company entered into an Amendment to the Sublease Agreement with PuriCore, Inc. to sublease an additional 7,500 square feet of the Malvern corporate headquarters at a premium price per square foot. This amendment has a commencement date of October 25, 2006 and expires concurrent with the initial lease on September 30, 2009. License Agreement Renewal with IGI, Inc. In December 2005, we received a $1,000,000 payment from IGI, Inc. in accordance with an option in a licensing agreement signed between the Company and IGI in December 1995. This payment gives IGI a ten year renewal on licensed technologies in specific fields and was recorded as licensing fee income for the year ended December 31, 2005. Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC (the Pharmelle Transaction) In September 2005, as part of the Companys strategic repositioning, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC for the sale of assets related to the AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products, as well as assets relating to certain formerly marketed products. The assets sold included, but were not limited to, intellectual property, the New Drug Application for AVC products, inventory and sales and promotional materials. In connection with the sale, Pharmelle agreed to assume (i) those liabilities and obligations arising after the closing date of the transaction in connection with the performance by Pharmelle of certain assumed contracts, (ii) those liabilities and obligations arising after the closing date in connection with products sold by Pharmelle after the closing date or the operation of the business relating to such products or the assets after such date (including any product liability claims associated with such products), and (iii) all liability and responsibility for returns of the products made after the closing date, regardless of when such products were produced, manufactured or sold. In consideration for the sale of these assets, Pharmelle paid us $2.5 million in cash and assumed the liabilities noted above. In addition, we are entitled to royalties on AVC for a five year period if net sales exceed certain levels. During 2005, we wrote off $1.1 million, the net balance of the intangible assets related to the AVC product acquisition and $0.3 million of inventory, recorded a $0.3 million liability for future obligations and recorded a gain on the transaction of $0.8 million. In July 2006, we entered into an amendment to the Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC, to revise the royalty formula. We are now entitled to royalties on AVC products for a five year period based on a percentage of gross margins if net sales exceed certain levels. We did not record any royalty income under this agreement during 2006. Pharmelle has sold the asset and assigned the Asset Purchase Agreement to Azur Pharma Inc. in early 2007. 30 Equity Financing Transactions In March 2006, we completed an agent led equity offering of 5,205,480 shares of common stock at $7.30 per share, for gross proceeds of $38.0 million. The stock was offered and sold pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement. Net proceeds were approximately $36.1 million. In February 2006, we completed an offering of 4,597,700 shares of common stock at $4.35 per share for gross proceeds of $20.0 million to a group of institutional investors including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Prospect Venture Partners. The stock was offered and sold pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement. Net proceeds were approximately $19.9 million. In November 2005, we completed an agent led offering of 4,186,047 shares of common stock at $4.30 per share, for gross proceeds of $18.0 million. The stock was issued pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement with net proceeds of approximately $17.0 million. In July 2005, we completed an agent led offering of 4,000,000 shares of common stock at $1.00 per share, for gross proceeds of $4.0 million. The stock was issued pursuant to an existing shelf registration statement with net proceeds of approximately $3.6 million. Convertible Notes Conversion In March 2006, certain holders of $7.0 million principal amount of our 4.75% senior convertible notes due July 15, 2009 exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest of $68,000 into 1,294,564 shares of Novavax common stock, at the per share conversion price of $5.46. This reduced the aggregated principal of such notes outstanding from $29.0 million to $22.0 million at December 31, 2006. In October 2005, certain holders of $6.0 million face amount of our 4.75% senior convertible notes due July 15, 2009 exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest of $81,000 into 1,070,635 shares of Novavax common stock, at the per share conversion price of $5.68. This reduced the aggregate principal amount of such notes outstanding from $35.0 million to $29.0 million at December 31, 2005. Restructuring of the Sales Force From March through August 2005, we implemented measures to reduce costs associated with our commercial operations by downsizing and then eliminating our sales force to correspond with our strategy of transitioning from a commercial business model to one focused on our core competency of new product development. The March 2005 restructuring reduced our sales force from 100 to 47 employees and the August restructuring eliminated the remaining sales force. Included in 2005 sales and marketing expenses is $0.4 million related to these two restructurings. Cancellation of King Pharmaceuticals Agreements In January 2001, we entered into a co promotion agreement with King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King) for our topical estrogen therapy, ESTRASORB, in the U.S. and Puerto Rico (the Territory). We also entered into a license agreement with King for many countries outside the U.S. The co promotion and license agreements (the Agreements) granted King the right to share equally in the revenues and expenses for manufacturing and marketing ESTRASORB in the Territory and exclusive rights to many countries outside the U.S. The Agreements also entitled us to up to $5.0 million in milestone payments from King for achievement of milestones outlined in the Agreements. In June 2001, we amended the Agreements (the Amended Agreements). The Amended Agreements clarified the terms of two milestone payments totaling $5.0 million. The Amended Agreements also granted King exclusive rights to promote, market and distribute ESTRASORB in Canada, Switzerland, Greece, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands, the only countries excluded from the original license agreement. In addition, the Amended Agreements included the co promotion and license of a topical testosterone therapy for testosterone deficient women that was in development. 31 In July 2004, we mutually agreed to terminate the Amended Agreements (the King Transaction). The King Transaction included the return to us of all worldwide rights for ESTRASORB and the MNP testosterone product candidate, as well as all rights to other womens health products that we may successfully develop utilizing the MNP technology. The King Transaction also included the redemption of $40.0 million of our convertible notes held by King. Additionally, we hired 50 members of Kings womens health sales force to provide competitive sales force coverage. As part of this transaction, we paid King a net of $14.0 million in cash and issued King 3,775,610 shares of common stock, which at the time of closing were valued at approximately $18.1 million. The King Transaction resulted in a gain on the redemption of the convertible notes held by King of $11.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This gain was determined based on the fair value of the convertible notes plus accrued interest as of the transaction date compared to the notes total book value. In addition, an intangible asset for ESTRASORB rights of $2.5 million was recorded, which represents the difference between assets and liabilities acquired or written off, the net cash paid in the transaction, the common stock issued and transaction fees and expenses. The recorded intangible was determined to be a fair value for the rights re acquired based on the sales levels of ESTRASORB, the status of obtaining product approvals outside the U.S. and the deferred further development of the MNP testosterone product candidate. Included in the assets and liabilities written off were deferred financing costs of $0.4 million relating to the convertible notes held by King, and remaining deferred revenue of $2.2 million relating to previous licensing fees for ESTRASORB, mentioned above. Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Such accounting principles require that our management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. The items in our consolidated financial statements that have required us to make significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Revenue Recognition and Allowances The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulleting No. 104, Revenue Recognition (SAB No. 104). For product sales, revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. The Company establishes allowances for estimated uncollectible amounts, product returns, rebates and charge backs based on historical trends and specifically identified problem accounts. A large part of the Companys product sales are to Esprit or to distributors who resell the products to their customers. The Company provides rebates to members of certain buying groups who purchase from the Companys distributors, to distributors that sell to their customers at prices determined under a contract between the Company and the customer, and to state agencies that administer various programs such as the federal Medicaid and Medicare programs. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases or by reference to a specific price for a product. The Company estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of revenue when the Company records our sale of the products. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from three to 12 months after sale. The Company regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends, distributor inventory levels, product prescription data and generic competition and makes adjustments to the recorded reserves for changes in trends, distributor inventory levels, product prescription data and generic competition and makes adjustments to the recorded reserves based on such information. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement with Pharmelle, LLC, the Company no longer has responsibility for rebates or returns related to AVCtm Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart as of the date of the sales of such assets. Under the License and Supply Agreements with Esprit Pharma, Inc., the Company 32 no longer has responsibility for rebates related to ESTRASORB or returns related to ESTRASORB sales made subsequent to entering into the License Agreement on October 19, 2005. The shipping and handling costs the Company incurs are included in cost of products sold in its statements of operations. For upfront payments and licensing fees related to contract research or technology, the Company follows the provisions of SAB No. 104 in determining if these payments and fees represent the culmination of a separate earnings process or if they should be deferred and recognized as revenue as earned over the life of the related agreement. Milestone payments are recognized as revenue upon achievement of contract specified events and when there are no remaining performance obligations. Revenue earned under research contracts is recognized in accordance with the terms and conditions of such contracts for reimbursement of costs incurred and defined milestones. Stock Based Compensation Prior to January 1, 2006, the Companys equity based employee compensation cost under its various stock incentive and option plans was accounted for under the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations, as permitted by Standard of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123) Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised), Accounting for Stock based Payment (SFAS No. 123R) using the modified prospective method. This standard requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity share options granted based on the grant date fair value of options. The cost is recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period of the options. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Such costs include internal research and development expenditures (such as salaries and benefits, raw materials and supplies) and contracted services (such as sponsored research, consulting and testing services) of proprietary research and development activities and similar expenses associate with collaborative research agreements. Income Taxes The Companys income taxes are accounted for using the liability method. Under the liability method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and operating loss carry forward. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of changes in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The Company has provided a full valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill originally results from business acquisitions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair values; the excess of the purchase price over the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Other intangible assets are a result of product acquisitions, non compete arrangements and internally discovered patents. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to impairment tests annually, or more frequently should indicators of impairment arise. The Company utilizes a discounted cash flow analysis that includes profitability information, estimated future operating results, trends and other information in assessing whether the value of the indefinite lived intangible assets can be recovered. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill 33 impairment is deemed to exist if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 142, the Company initially tested its goodwill for impairment as of January 1, 2002 and determined that no impairment was present. The Company thereafter performed the required annual impairment test as of December 31 of each year on the carrying amount of its goodwill. The Company evaluates the recoverability of the carrying value of its long lived assets and identifiable intangibles periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the recoverability of the carrying value of an asset should be assessed include but are not limited to the following: a significant decrease in the market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant physical change in an asset, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of an asset, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, a current period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses, and or a projection of forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associate with an asset used for the purpose of producing revenue. The Company considers historical performance and anticipated future results in its evaluation of potential impairment. Accordingly, when indicators of impairment are present, the Company evaluates the carrying value of these assets in relation to the operating performance of the business and future discounted and undiscounted cash flows is less than the assets carrying value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Other than the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised), Accounting for Stock Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), there have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since December 31, 2005, nor have we adopted any accounting policy that has or will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion of our accounting policies see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herewith. SFAS No. 123R As of January 1, 2006 (effective date), we adopted SFAS No. 123R in accounting for stock options issued to our employees, directors and consultants using the modified prospective method. The modified prospective method requires that compensation costs be recognized for all share based payments granted after the effective date and for all awards granted prior to the effective date that are unvested using the requirements of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we accounted for our stock based compensation using the principles of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB No. 25) as permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123). APB No. 25 generally did not require that options granted to employees be expensed. Since we elected to use the modified prospective method, there are no one time effects from the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, such as a cumulative effect adjustment. There were no modifications to outstanding stock options as of December 31, 2005 and 2006. There have been no changes in the quantity or type of instruments used in share based payment programs. There has been no material modifications to the valuation methodologies or assumptions from those used in estimating the fair value of options under SFAS No. 123 other than the adjustments for expected volatility. Prior to the adoption of SFAS. No. 123R, we utilized the preceding 12 month period historical stock prices in determining the expected volatility. With the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we use the historical volatilities based on stock prices since the inception of the stock plans in determining the expected volatility. Forfeiture rates are estimated based on historical activities since the inception of the stock plans. There have been no changes in the normal terms of share based payments agreements. For grants awarded prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for compensation cost using a graded method. For grants awarded on or after January 1, 2006, we accounted for compensation cost using a straight line method. As December 31, 2006, the aggregate fair value of the remaining compensation cost of unvested options, as determined using a Black Scholes option valuation model, was approximately $2.4 million (net of estimated forfeitures). This remaining compensation costs is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years. 34 The effects of adopting SFAS No. 123R are recorded as compensation costs in the operating costs and expenses as follows: Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2006 (In thousands) Cost of products sold (which includes idle capacity) $ 48 Research and development 547 General and administrative 1,167 Total effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R $ 1,776 SFAS No. 157 In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, but does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 will become effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating what impact, if any, SFAS No. 157 will have on our financial conditions, results or operations or liquidity. SAB No. 108 In September 2006, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulleting No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB No. 108). SAB No. 108 was issued to provide consistency between how registrants quantify financial statement misstatements and requires us to quantify financial statement misstatements and requires us to quantify misstatements based on their impact on each of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosure. SAB No. 108 is effective as of the end of our 2006 fiscal year, allowing a one time transitional cumulative effect adjustment to retained earning as of January 1, 2006 for errors that were not previously deemed material, but are material under the guidance in SAB No. 108. The adoption of this SAB did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. FIN 48 In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes: an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) FIN 48, which clarifies Statement 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes the criterion that an individual tax position has to meet for some or all of the benefits of that position to be recognized in the Companys financial statements. On initial application, FIN 48 will be applied to all tax positions for which the statute of limitations remains open. Only tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold at the adoption date will be recognized or continue to be recognized. The cumulative effect of applying FIN 48 will be reported as an adjustment to retained earnings at the beginning of the period in which it is adopted. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and will be adopted by the Company on January 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating what impact, if any, adopting FIN 48 will have on our consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 159 In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 provides companies an option to report certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The intent of SFAS No. 159 is to reduce the complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets 35 and liabilities differently. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years after November 15, 2007. The Company is evaluating the impact this new standard will have on its financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations for Fiscal Years 2006, 2005 and 2004 (In thousands, except percentage changes and share and per share information) The following is a discussion of the historical consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Novavax, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the Companys forward looking statements is contained from time to time in the Companys SEC filings. 2006 2005 Change from 2005 Change from 2004 2004 Revenues: Total net product sales $ 2,501 $ (2,048 ) (45 )% $ 4,549 $ (1,848 ) (29 )% $ 6,397 Contract research and development 1,886 88 5 % 1,798 60 3 % 1,738 Royalties, milestone and licensing fees 296 (745 ) (72 )% 1,041 916 733 % 125 $ 4,683 $ (2,705 ) (37 )% $ 7,388 $ (872 ) (11 )% $ 8,260 Revenues for 2006 consisted of product sales of $2.5 million compared to $4.6 million in 2005; contract research and development revenues of $1.9 million in 2006 compared to $1.8 million in 2005; and royalties, milestone and licensing fees of $0.3 million in 2006 compared to $1.0 million in 2005. Total revenues for 2006 were $4.7 million as compared to $7.4 million for 2005, a decrease of $2.7 million or 37%. The primary reason for this decrease in revenues was the divestiture of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005 and the licensing of exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit Pharma, Inc. in October 2005. Under the terms of the License and Supply Agreements with Esprit, the Company agreed to manufacture and supply ESTRASORB. As a result, product sales for 2006 consist primarily of ESTRASORB sales to Esprit under the October 2005 Supply Agreement and commercial Gynodiol sales. Included in ESTRASORB net sales for 2006 was a $(0.2) million adjustment to the ESTRASORB sales return allowance for product sold commercially prior to the licensing of ESTRASORB to Esprit. ESTRASORB sales were lower than expected for 2006 due to weak market demand for this product. During 2006, Esprit established several marketing programs for ESTRASORB that they anticipate will increase market demand. Contract research and development revenues for 2006 totaled $1.9 million as compared to 2005 contract research and development revenues of $1.8 million. Revenues in the current year were recognized under a National Institutes of Health (NIH) grant to develop a second generation HIV/AIDS vaccine, three manufacturing contracts and one additional government contract. Royalties, milestone and licensing fees for 2006 consisted of $0.3 million from royalties pursuant to the License Agreement with Esprit Pharma for ESTRASORB. This represents a $0.7 million decrease from $1.0 million in royalties, milestones and license fees for 2005 which consisted of a $1.0 million renewal fee received from IGI, Inc. in December 2005 in accordance with an option in a licensing agreement signed between the Company and IGI in December 1995. This payment gives IGI a ten year renewal on licensed technologies in specific fields. Revenues for 2005 consisted of product sales of $4.5 million compared to $6.4 million in 2004; contract research revenues of $1.8 million compared to $1.7 million in 2004; and royalties, milestone and licensing fees of $1.0 million in 2005 compared to $0.1 million in 2004. Total revenues for 2005 were $7.4 million compared to $8.3 million for 2004, a decrease of $0.9 million or 11%. Of the total decrease in revenues, product sales accounted 36 for $1.8 million partially offset by a $0.9 million increase in royalties, milestone and licensing fees. The reason for the net decrease in net product sales is primarily due to the following: In September 2005, we entered into the Pharmelle Transaction for the sale of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products. As a result, the 2005 vitamin and AVC product sales only reflect a partial year of revenues for these product lines. During 2005, the vitamin lines continued to be negatively impacted by generic products and new product competition. Sales of Gynodiol in 2005 were lower than the prior year primarily due to an out of stock situation for certain prescription strengths. In October 2005, we entered into the Esprit Transaction. Under these agreements, Esprit obtained exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America and the Company agreed to manufacture and sell ESTRASORB to Esprit for a lower price than what we previously sold ESTRASORB to our distributors. 2005 ESTRASORB net product sales include sales to our distributors through the date of this agreement and to Esprit after this date. Contract research revenues in 2005 totaled $1.8 million compared to 2004 contract research revenues of $1.7 million. Royalties, milestone and licensing fees increased by $0.9 million from $0.1 million in 2004 to $1.0 million in 2005 primarily due to a $1.0 million license renewal fee received from IGI, Inc. for a ten year renewal on licensed technologies in specific fields. Operating Costs and Expenses: 2006 2005 Change from Change from 2005 2004 2004 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of products sold $ 4,924 $ (867 ) (15 )% $ 5,791 $ 2,301 66 % $ 3,490 Excess inventory costs over market 1,549 30 2 % 1,519 1,519 100 % Research and development 11,529 6,454 127 % 5,075 (2,294 ) (31 )% 7,369 Selling and marketing 101 (6,819 ) (99 )% 6,920 (16,668 ) (71 )% 23,588 General and administrative 11,187 3,073 38 % 8,114 (602 ) (7 )% 8,716 Facility exit costs (105 ) (100 )% 105 (618 ) (85 )% 723 Gain on sales of product assets 10,965 100 % (10,965 ) (10,965 ) (100 )% Gain on redemption of debt 11,162 100 % (11,162 ) $ 29,290 $ 12,731 77 % $ 16,559 $ (16,165 ) (50 )% $ 32,724 Cost of Products Sold and Idle Capacity Cost of products sold, which includes fixed idle capacity costs at our manufacturing facility, decreased to $4.9 million in 2006 compared to $5.8 million in 2005. Of the $4.9 million cost of products sold for 2006, $2.5 million was due to idle capacity costs at our manufacturing facility compared to $3.2 million in 2005. The remaining $2.4 million primarily represents the cost of ESTRASORB sales to Esprit under our October 2005 Supply Agreement, Gynodiol cost of products sold and costs related to manufacturing contracts. Of the $5.8 million cost of products sold for 2005, $3.2 million was due to idle capacity at our manufacturing facility. Idle capacity costs for 2005 were $0.7 million higher than in 2006 due partially to the accounting of excess inventory costs over market in 2006, which is discussed in more detail below. Other factors contributing to the decrease in cost of products sold was lower production volumes, the divestiture of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005, and lower Gynodiol sales in 2006 when compared to the prior year. 37 Cost of products sold, which includes fixed idle capacity costs at our manufacturing facility, increased to $5.8 million in 2005, compared to $3.5 million in 2004, a 66% increase. Of the $5.8 million cost of products sold for 2005, $3.2 million was due to idle plant capacity costs at our manufacturing facility compared to $0.7 million in 2004. The remaining $2.6 million increase was primarily due to ESTRASORB, which accounted for 45% of net product sales in 2005, as opposed to 28% of net product sales in 2004, and carries a much higher cost of product sold than our other products. ESTRASORB cost of product sold percentages have been and will continue to be high until we increase production volumes for both ESTRASORB and other manufactured products to offset the fixed costs and depreciation related to the manufacturing facility, on going facility costs and costs associated with the personnel required to manufacture products at this facility. With the sale of vitamin and AVC lines, future cost of products sold will correspond to our ESTRASORB sales to Esprit, Gynodiol sales to distributors and manufacturing costs related to other products produced at our manufacturing facility. Until this facility reaches maximum capacity fixed idle capacity costs will continue to be included in cost of products sold. Excess Inventory Costs over Market As part of the October 2005 License and Supply Agreement for ESTRASORB, we agreed to manufacture and sell ESTRASORB to Esprit Pharma, Inc. at a price that was lower than our current production costs for the inventory manufactured and sold. These excess costs over the fixed price are being paid under the Supply Agreement with Esprit totaled $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $1.5 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. It is most likely we will continue to manufacture ESTRASORB at a loss until production volumes increase or we enter into additional contract manufacturing agreements with third parties to more fully utilize our manufacturing facilitys capacity. The current facility is able to accommodate much greater production than is currently scheduled, which, if more fully utilized, would offset the fixed costs related to the manufacturing process and facility. In addition, we are negotiating revisions to our agreements for packaging costs of ESTRASORB as well as our fixed lease costs for the manufacturing facility. If these negotiations result in higher packaging or facility lease costs for us, it may have a material adverse impact on future operating and financial results. Research and Development Expenses Research and development costs increased from $5.1 million in 2005 to $11.5 million in 2006, an increase of$6.5 million or 127%. This increase was due primarily to higher research and development spending to support our strategic focus on creating differentiated, value added vaccines that leverage the Companys proprietary virus like particle (VLP) technology. Research and development expenses were significantly higher in 2006 due to increases in personnel, facility and outside testing costs (including sponsored research and consulting agreements) associated with expanded preclinical testing and process development, manufacturing and quality related programs necessary to move the Companys influenza vaccine candidates into clinical testing. Also contributing to this increase was the recognition of $0.5 million of non cash compensation costs resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in 2006, using the modified prospective method, while no costs were recorded in 2005 utilizing the accounting recognition methods under APB No. 25. Research and development costs decreased from $7.4 million in 2004 to $5.1 million in 2005. The decrease of $2.3 million or 31% was due to manufacturing start up costs in 2004 being accounted for as research and development expense until April 2004. Manufacturing costs in the first quarter of 2004 totaling $1.7 million were incurred to prepare and validate the ESTRASORB facility for current Good Manufacturing Practices and FDA compliance and not to build inventory. Beginning in April 2004, manufacturing costs were included in cost of sales and inventory. Vaccine contract research costs, which are included in total research and development expenses, decreased from $3.2 million in 2004 to $2.6 million in 2005. This decrease was due to higher costs reimbursed or paid under a government contract in 2004, as well as a reduction in facility costs for 2005. Estimated Cost and Time to Complete Major Projects The expenditures that will be necessary to execute our business plan are subject to numerous uncertainties, which may adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. As of December 31, 2006, our proprietary product and vaccine candidates were in early stages of development. Due to the inherent nature of product development, future market demand for products and factors outside of our control, such as clinical results and regulatory 38 approvals, we are unable to estimate the completion dates and the estimated total costs for those product candidates. The duration and the cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of differences arising during clinical trial protocol, including, but not limited to, the following: number of patients that ultimately participate in the trial; duration of the patient follow up that seems appropriate in view of the results; number of clinical sites included in the trials; and length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects. In addition, we test our potential products and vaccines in numerous preclinical studies to identify, among other things, the daily dosage amounts. We may conduct multiple clinical trials to cover a variety of indications for each product candidate. As we obtain results for our trials we may elect to discontinue clinical trials for certain product candidates or indications. We further believe that it is not possible to predict the length of regulatory approval time. Factors that are outside our control could significantly delay the approval and marketability of our product candidates. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above and other risks and uncertainties, the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects are difficult to estimate and are subject to numerous variations. Our inability to complete our research and development projects in a timely manner could significantly increase our capital requirements and could adversely impact our liquidity. These uncertainties could force us to seek external sources of financing from time to time in order to continue pursuing our business strategy. For more discussion of the risks and uncertainties and our liquidity, see Item 1A Risk Factors and see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses were $101,000 in 2006 compared to $6.9 million in 2005. This decrease of $6.8 million, or 99%, was due to our strategy of transitioning from a specialty pharmaceutical company, which included the sale and marketing of products serving the womens health space, to an innovative, biopharmaceutical company focused on creating differentiated, value added vaccines that leverage the Companys proprietary VLP technology. With the sale of our vitamin and AVC lines to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005 and the licensing of ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit in October 2005, our ongoing selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs related to sales of Gynodiol. These ongoing costs should be minimal. Selling and marketing expenses were $6.9 million in 2005 compared to $23.6 million in 2004. This significant decrease of $16.7 million, or 71%, was due to the reduction of the Companys sales force in March 2005 and the elimination of its remaining sales force in August 2005. This corresponded with our strategy of transitioning from a commercial business model to that of one focused on our core competency of new product development. With the sale of our vitamin and AVC lines to Pharmelle and the licensing of ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit, the only remaining product that we are selling directly to our distributors is Gynodiol. General and Administrative General and administrative costs were $11.2 million in 2006 compared to $8.1 million in 2005. This $3.1 million increase was partially due to $1.2 million of non cash compensation costs resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in 2006, using the modified prospective method, while no costs were recorded in 2005 utilizing the accounting recognition methods under APB No. 25. Other factors contributing to this increase were higher personnel, legal and consulting costs related to the Companys VLP based vaccine development programs. The Company took steps to strengthen its intellectual property portfolio and initiate business development and commercial assessment activities related to its new vaccine development strategy. Also included in 2006 is a $167,000 reserve against a note receivable and its corresponding accrued interest due from a former director of the Company. This reserve represents the difference between the book value of the receivables less the market value of the pledged shares of common stock of the Company as of December 31, 2006. The Company also made a loan to another director which is due to mature on March 21, 2007. 39 Included in 2005 general and administrative expense was a $400,000 offset for Opportunity Grant funds received from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for the reimbursement of certain costs incurred with the move of our corporate headquarters and product development activities from Maryland to Pennsylvania. As a result of the Companys recent decision to relocate its corporate headquarters and vaccine development activities back to Maryland, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has demanded repayment of the $400,000 Opportunity Grant received in 2005. The Company has recorded a liability in 2006 reflecting its obligation to repay this amount. General and administrative costs were $8.1 million in 2005 compared to $8.7 million in 2004. This $0.6 million decrease, or 7%, is primarily due to receiving $0.4 million from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for the reimbursement of certain costs incurred with the move to our corporate headquarters and product development activities to Malvern, Pennsylvania as well as cost saving measures implemented in 2004 and 2005. This decrease was partially offset by increases in legal fees and business development costs, related to strategic initiatives. Other Operating Costs and Expenses In 2005, we recorded gains on sales of product assets totaling $11.0 million, which consisted of a $10.1 million gain from the licensing of exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America to Esprit Pharma, Inc. in October 2005 and a $0.9 million gain from the divestiture of assets related to AVC Cream and Suppositories, NovaNatal and NovaStart products to Pharmelle, LLC in September 2005. In 2004, we recorded a one time gain on the redemption of convertible notes held by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of $11.2 million related to the King Transaction (see Summary of Significant Transactions). A charge for facility exit costs of $0.7 million was recorded in 2004. As previously described, in September 2004 we moved to Malvern, Pennsylvania to consolidate and expand our corporate headquarters and product development activities. We vacated our facility in Columbia, Maryland and recorded a liability of $0.2 million for lease termination costs and wrote off the net value of the Columbia leasehold assets of $0.5 million. A further adjustment was made in 2005 of $0.1 million for additional contract termination costs. Interest Income/(Expense): 2006 2005 Change from 2005 Change from 2004 2004 Interest income (expense) Interest income $ 3,267 $ 2,937 890 % $ 330 $ 12 4 % $ 318 Interest expense (1,727 ) (606 ) (26 )% (2,333 ) 489 27 % (1,844 ) $ 1,540 $ 3,543 177 % $ (2,003 ) $ 477 31 % $ (1,526 ) Interest income was $3.3 million in 2006 and $0.3 million in 2005 and 2004. This increase in interest income was due primarily to significantly higher investment balances resulting from the net proceeds from three equity financing transactions during the fourth quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 which totaled $73.0 million as well as higher interest rates. Interest expense was $1.7 million in 2006, $2.3 million in 2005 and $1.8 million in 2004. Interest expense relates primarily to the convertible notes with King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of $40.0 million in 2003 through July 2004, at which time these notes were redeemed and the Company issued new 4.75% senior convertible notes totaling $35.0 million to a group of institutional investors. In October 2005, certain holders of $6.0 million face amount of the convertible notes exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest into 1,070,635 shares of Novavax common stock. This reduced the aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes outstanding to $29.0 million as of December 31, 2005. In March 2006, certain holders of $7.0 million face amount of the convertible notes exercised their optional right to convert their notes plus accrued interest into 1,294,564 shares of Novavax common stock. This further reduced the aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes outstanding to $22.0 million as of December 31, 2006. Included in interest expense for 2005 and 2006 is a $0.3 million and a $0.3 million write off of deferred financing costs that corresponds to the conversion of $6.0 million in convertible debt in 2005 and $7.0 million in convertible debt in 2006. Also included in interest 40 expense for 2006, 2005 and 2004 is $0.3 million, $0.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively, of amortization of deferred financing costs that corresponds to the issuance of the 4.75% senior convertible notes in 2004. Net Losses: 2006 2005 Change from Change from 2005 2004 2004 Net loss $ (23,068 ) $ (11,894 ) (106 )% $ (11,174 ) $ 14,746 57 % $ (25,920 ) Net loss per share $ (0.39 ) $ (0.13 ) (50 )% $ (0.26 ) $ 0.44 63 % $ (0.70 ) Weighted shares outstanding 58,664,365 42,758,302 36,926,034 Net loss for 2006 was $23.1 million or $(0.39) per share, as compared to $11.2 million or $(0.26) per share for 2005, an increase of $11.9 million. The increased loss was primarily due to the gain on sales of product assets totaling $11.0 million recorded in 2005. Also contributing to this higher loss in 2006 was a $2.7 million decrease in revenues, a $1.9 million increase in operating costs and expenses in support of the Companys new vaccine development strategy and $0.1 million in facility exit costs offset by a $2.9 million increase in interest income and a $0.6 million decrease in interest expense, all previously discussed. Net loss for 2005 was $11.2 million or $(0.26) per share, as compared to $25.9 million or $(0.70) per share for 2004, a decrease of $14.7 million, or $0.44 per share. The decreased loss in 2005 was due to the gain on sales of product assets of $11.0 million, a decrease of $15.7 million in operating expenses and $0.6 million in facility exit costs, partially offset by the $0.9 million decrease in 2005 revenues, the gain on redemption of convertible debt held by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of $11.2 million and an increase of $0.5 million in interest expense, all previously discussed. Weighted shares outstanding increased from 36.9 million shares in 2004 to 58.7 million shares in 2006 due primarily to the equity financing transactions in the second half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 coupled with the conversion of $13.0 million of senior convertible notes into shares of Novavax common stock during this same period. In addition, exercises of stock options and issuance of restricted stock as compensation also contributed to this increase in weighted shares outstanding. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors including but not limited to, the commitments and progress of our research and development programs, the progress of preclinical and clinical testing, the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, and manufacturing costs related to ESTRASORB. We plan to continue to have multiple vaccines and products in various stages of development and we believe our research and development as well as general administrative expenses and capital requirements will continue to exceed our revenues. Future activities, particularly vaccine and product development, 41 are subject to our ability to raise funds through debt or equity financing, or collaborative arrangements with industry partners and government agencies. Year Ended December 31, 2006 (In thousands) Summary of Cash Flows: Net cash (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (14,810 ) Investing activities (66,815 ) Financing activities 56,893 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (24,732 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 31,893 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ $7,161 In addition to revenues of $20.3 million during the three year period ended December 31, 2006, we have funded our operations primarily from the following activities: Net Proceeds (in Millions) 2004 2005 2006 Total Sales of common stock in public offerings, net $ $ 20.7 $ 56.0 $ 76.7 Sales of common stock in a private placement 4.7 4.7 Sales of product assets 12.7 12.7 License payments received 1.0 2.5 2.5 Issuance of convertible notes 32.9 32.9 Uses associated with the King Transaction (15.0 ) (15.0 ) Exercise of stock options and warrants 0.4 0.4 1.7 2.5 $ 23.0 $ 34.8 $ 60.2 $ 117.0 As of December 31, 2006, we held $73.6 million in cash and investments as compared to $31.9 million at December 31, 2005. Of the $41.7 million increase in cash and investments during 2006, $56.7 million was obtained from financing activities, primarily reflecting proceeds of $56.0 million from the issuance of common stock and $1.7 million from purchases under the Companys stock incentive programs offset by debt repayments of $0.7 million; $14.8 million was used for operating activities, consisting of a net loss of $23.1 million, as previously discussed, offset by non cash activities of $5.6 million and $2.7 million generated by the change in operating assets and liabilities; and $1.5 million was used for investing activities (exclusive of short term investment purchases, sales and maturities) consisting of general capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2006, our working capital was $72.0 million compared to $32.7 million as of December 31, 2005. This $39.3 million increase primarily reflects the $56.0 million net proceeds from two equity financing transactions that occurred during the first quarter of 2006, $1.7 million from the exercise of stock options offset by $17.7 million in operating and capital investment activities and $0.7 million in principal payments on our outstanding debt obligations. We intend to use the proceeds from our recent equity financing transactions for general corporate purposes, including but not limited to our internal research and development programs, such as preclinical and clinical testing and studies for our vaccine and other product candidates, the development of new technologies, capital improvements and general working capital. In the first quarter of 2007, we entered into sponsored research and licensing arrangements with two academic institutions to conduct early stage research in the vaccine area. These and similar arrangements that we may enter into may aggregate to a material amount of research and development spending that will accelerate the use of such proceeds. We will continue to fund our operations through product licensing, co development arrangements on new products, or the public or private sale of securities of the Company. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional capital or, if such capital is available, that the terms of any financing will be satisfactory to the Company. 42 As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $22 million of senior convertible notes outstanding (the Notes). The Notes carry a 4.75% coupon; are currently convertible into shares of Novavax common stock at $5.46 per share; and mature on July 19, 2009. The Note holders have the right to redeem all or a portion of the Notes if the weighted average price of the Companys common stock is less than the then applicable conversion price (currently $5.46 per share) of the Companys common stock on each of 30 trading days out of the 40 consecutive trading days immediately prior to either the third anniversary (July 19, 2007) or the fourth anniversary (July 19, 2008) of the issue date of the Notes. If the Note holders exercise their optional redemption right, the Company may elect to pay up to 50 per cent of the outstanding Notes being redeemed in shares of Common Stock. The redemption of the Companys senior convertible notes would have an adverse effect on the Companys current cash position and its ability to fund its operations. Based on our assessment of the availability of capital and our business operations as currently contemplated, in the absence of new financings, any potential redemption of Notes, licensing arrangements or partnership agreements, we believe we will have adequate capital resources into the second half of 2008. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will continue to assess our capital resources and we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our product research and development programs, downsize our organization, or reduce general and administrative infrastructure. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We utilize different financing instruments, such as debt and operating leases, to finance various equipment and facility needs. The following table summarizes our current financing obligations and commitments (in thousands) as of December 31, 2006: Less than 1 3 4 5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Commitments & Obligations Convertible notes $ 22,000 $ $ 22,000 $ $ Operating leases 9,419 1,660 5,062 2,588 109 Notes payable 1,189 731 458 Manufacturing facility lease 2,460 1,140 1,320 Total principal payments 35,068 3,531 28,840 2,588 109 Less: Subleases (1,315 ) (479 ) (836 ) Net principal payments 33,753 3,052 28,004 2,588 109 Interest 2,696 1,072 1,624 Total commitments & obligations $ 36,449 $ 4,124 $ 29,628 $ 2,588 $ 109 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company is not involved in any off balance sheet agreements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on its financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $73.6 million as follows: Cash and cash equivalents $ 7.2 million Short term investments $ 66.4 million Our exposure to market risk is confined to our investment portfolio. We maintain an investment portfolio of investment grade government agency notes and corporate bonds. The securities in our investment portfolio are classified as held until maturity securities and are, due to their predominantly short term nature, subject to minimal 43 interest rate risk. While we do not believe that an increase in market rates of interest would have any significant negative impact on the realizable value of our investment portfolio, changes in interest rates affect the investment income we earn on our investments and, therefore, impact our cash flow and results of operations. We are headquartered in the U.S. where we conduct the vast majority of our business activities. Accordingly, we have not had any material exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a total debt of $23.2 million, most of which bears interest at fixed interest rates. The Company therefore does not believe that it is exposed to any material interest rate risk as a result of its borrowing activities. Information required under this section is also contained in Part I, Item IA of this report and in Item 8 of this report, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
</SECTION>
