<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: SALIX PHARMACEUTICALS LTD
CIK: 0001009356
SIC: 2834
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070315
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW We are a specialty pharmaceutical company dedicated to acquiring, developing and commercializing prescription drugs used in the treatment of a variety of gastrointestinal diseases, which are those affecting the digestive tract. Our strategy is to identify and acquire rights to products that we believe have potential for near term regulatory approval or are already approved; apply our regulatory, product development, and sales and marketing expertise to commercialize these products; and use our 150 member specialty sales and marketing team focused on high prescribing U.S. gastroenterologists to sell our products. In September 2006 we acquired exclusive marketing rights for Sanvar&reg; from Debiovision Inc. and paid an up front payment of $0.5 million. Sanvar is currently undergoing a confirmatory Phase III trial for the treatment of acute esophageal variceal bleeding secondary to portal hypertension. Esophageal variceal bleeding, or EVB, is a life threatening and frequent complication of late stage liver cirrhosis. Sanvar, if approved, will be the only approved treatment for EVB in the United States. In February 2007, we purchased the U.S. prescription pharmaceutical product rights to Pepcid Oral Suspension and Diuril Oral Suspension from Merck & Co., Inc. Pepcid Oral Suspension is a widely known prescription pharmaceutical product indicated for several gastrointestinal indications including the treatment of duodenal ulcer, benign gastric ulcer and gastro esophageal reflux disease. The acquisition reflects the ongoing execution of the Companys strategy to expand and diversify revenue. Pepcid Oral Suspension achieved net product sales in the U.S. of approximately $20 million in 2006. Pepcid Oral Suspension and Diuril Oral Suspension, both liquid formulations of their solid dosage form counterparts, compete in an approximately $150 million market that is concentrated in pediatric and hospitalized patient populations. We anticipate launching a hospital sales force at the time of the Sanvar approval. In addition to selling Sanvar, Pepcid Oral Suspension and Diuril Oral Suspension, this focused sales force will work with our office based representatives to ensure that prescribers, managed care groups, hospital formulary committees and all other relevant parties are fully apprised of the utility and availability of Xifaxan and our other drugs. We generate revenue primarily by selling our products, prescription drugs, to pharmaceutical wholesalers. These direct customers resell and distribute our products to and through pharmacies to patients who have had our products prescribed by doctors. Because demand for our products originates with doctors, our sales force calls on high prescribing specialists, primarily gastroenterologists, and we monitor new and total prescriptions for our products as key performance indicators for our business. Prescriptions result in our products being used by patients, requiring our direct customers to purchase more products to replenish their inventory. However, our revenue might fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to other factors, such as increased buying by wholesalers in anticipation of a price increase or because of the introduction of new products. Revenue could be less than anticipated in subsequent quarters as wholesalers increased inventory is used up. For example, wholesalers made initial stocking purchases of OsmoPrep when it was launched in second quarter 2006 and MoviPrep when it was launched in the third quarter of 2006. Also, 2006 Colazal revenue was slightly lower than in the comparable periods in 2005 even though prescriptions increased in 2006. In December 2000, we established our own field sales force to market Colazal in the United States. Currently, this sales force has approximately 100 sales representatives in the field. Although the creation of an independent sales organization involved substantial costs, we believe that the financial returns from our direct product sales have been and will continue to be more favorable to us than those from the indirect sale of products through marketing partners. In addition, we intend to enter into distribution relationships outside the United States and in markets where a larger sales organization is appropriate. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES General Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments 25 Table of Contents that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to sales of our products, bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets and legal issues. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results might differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Methodologies used and assumptions selected by management in making these estimates, as well as the related disclosures, have been reviewed by and discussed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with the SECs Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements as amended by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 (together, SAB 101), and FASB Statement No. 48 Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists (SFAS 48). SAB 101 states that revenue should not be recognized until it is realized or realizable and earned. Revenue is realized or realizable and earned when all of the following criteria are met: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (b) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (c) the sellers price to the buyer is fixed and determinable; and (d) collectibility is reasonably assured. SFAS 48 states that revenue from sales transactions where the buyer has the right to return the product shall be recognized at the time of sale only if (1) the sellers price to the buyer is substantially fixed or determinable at the date of sale, (2) the buyer has paid the seller, or the buyer is obligated to pay the seller and the obligation is not contingent on resale of the product, (3) the buyers obligation to the seller would not be changed in the event of theft or physical destruction or damage of the product, (4) the buyer acquiring the product for resale has economic substance apart from that provided by the seller, (5) the seller does not have significant obligations for future performance to directly bring about resale of the product by the buyer, and (6) the amount of future returns can be reasonably estimated. We recognize revenues for product sales at the time title and risk of loss are transferred to the customer, and the other criteria of SAB 101 and SFAS 48 are satisfied, which is generally at the time products are shipped. Our net product revenue represents our total revenues less allowances for customer credits, including estimated discounts, rebates, chargebacks, and product returns. We establish allowances for estimated rebates, chargebacks and product returns based on numerous qualitative and quantitative factors, including: the number of and specific contractual terms of agreements with customers; estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel; historical rebates, chargebacks and returns of products; direct communication with customers; anticipated introduction of competitive products or generics; anticipated pricing strategy changes by Salix and or its competitors; analysis of prescription data gathered by a third party prescription data provider; the impact of changes in state and federal regulations; and estimated remaining shelf life of products. In our analyses, we use prescription data purchased from a third party data provider to develop estimates of historical inventory channel pull through. We utilize an internal analysis to compare historical net product shipments to estimated historical prescriptions written. Based on that analysis, we develop an estimate of the quantity of product in 26 Table of Contents the channel which may be subject to various rebate, chargeback and product return exposures. At least quarterly for each product line, we prepare an internal estimate of ending inventory units in the distribution channel by adding estimated inventory in the channel at the beginning of the period, plus net product shipments for the period, less estimated prescriptions written for the period. Based on that analysis, we develop an estimate of the quantity of product in the channel that might be subject to various rebate, chargeback and product return exposures. This is done for each product line by applying a rate of historical activity for rebates, chargebacks and product returns, adjusted for relevant quantitative and qualitative factors discussed above, to the potential exposed product estimated to be in the distribution channel. Internal forecasts that are utilized to calculate the estimated number of months in the channel are regularly adjusted based on input from members of our sales, marketing and operations groups. The adjusted forecasts take into account numerous factors including, but not limited to, new product introductions, direct communication with customers and potential product expiry issues. Consistent with industry practice, we periodically offer promotional discounts to our existing customer base. These discounts are calculated as a percentage of the current published list price and are treated as off invoice allowances. Accordingly, the discounts are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the period that the program is offered. In addition to promotional discounts, at the time that we implement a price increase, we generally offer our existing customer base an opportunity to purchase a limited quantity of product at the previous list price. Shipments resulting from these programs generally are not in excess of ordinary levels, therefore, we recognize the related revenue upon shipment and include the shipments in estimating our various product related allowances. In the event we determine that these shipments represent purchases of inventory in excess of ordinary levels for a given wholesaler, the potential impact on product returns exposure would be specifically evaluated and reflected as a reduction in revenue at the time of such shipments. Allowances for estimated rebates and chargebacks were $8.0 million and $7.3 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These allowances reflect an estimate of our liability for items such as rebates due to various governmental organizations under the Medicare/Medicaid regulations, rebates due to managed care organizations under specific contracts and chargebacks due to various organizations purchasing certain of our products through federal contracts and or group purchasing agreements. We estimate our liability for rebates and chargebacks at each reporting period based on a methodology of applying the relevant quantitative and qualitative assumptions discussed above. Due to the subjectivity of our accrual estimates for rebates and chargebacks, we prepare various sensitivity analyses to ensure our final estimate is within a reasonable range as well as review prior period activity to ensure that our methodology continues to be appropriate. Had a change in one or more variables in the analyses (utilization rates, contract modifications, etc.) resulted in an additional percentage point change in the trailing average of estimated chargeback and rebate activity in 2006, we would have recorded an adjustment to revenues of approximately $2.1 million, or 1.0%, for the year. Allowances for product returns were $6.1 million and $2.1 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These allowances reflect an estimate of our liability for product that may be returned by the original purchaser in accordance with our stated return policy. We estimate our liability for product returns at each reporting period based on historical return rates, the estimated inventory in the channel, and the other factors discussed above. Due to the subjectivity of our accrual estimates for product returns, we prepare various sensitivity analyses to ensure our final estimate is within a reasonable range as well as review prior period activity to ensure that our methodology is still reasonable. A change in assumptions that resulted in a 10% change in forecasted return rates would have resulted in a change in total product returns liability at December 31, 2006 of approximately $0.6 million and a corresponding change in 2006 net product revenue of less than 1%. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our absolute exposure for rebates, chargebacks and product returns has grown primarily as a result of increased sales of our existing products, the approval of new products and the acquisition of products. Accordingly, reductions to revenue and corresponding increases to allowance accounts have likewise increased. The provision for these revenue reducing items as a percentage of gross product revenue in the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was 8.8% and 8.3% for rebates, chargebacks and discounts and was 3.4% and 1.0% for product returns, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Inventories Inventory at December 31, 2006 consisted of $14.4 million of raw materials, $2.5 million of work in process, and $8.2 million of finished goods. Inventory at December 31, 2005 consisted of $15.8 million of raw materials, $4.6 million of work in process and $2.8 million of finished goods. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (which approximates actual cost on a first in, first out cost method) or market. In evaluating whether inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market, management considers such factors as the amount of inventory on hand and in the distribution channel, estimated time required to sell such inventory, remaining shelf life, and current and expected market conditions, including levels of competition. As of December 31, 2006, we had recorded inventory reserves totaling $0.7 million, compared to $2.8 million as of December 31, 2005, to reduce inventories to their net realizable value. The decrease in inventory reserves from 2006 to 2005 is primarily the result of a one time write off of $2.7 million of obsolete inventories in 2005 associated with the initial launch of Xifaxan. Refer to Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for a roll forward of the inventory allowance. Intangible Assets and Goodwill Our intangible assets consist of license agreements, product rights and other identifiable intangible assets, which result from product and business acquisitions. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. When we make product acquisitions that include license agreements, product rights and other identifiable intangible assets, we record the purchase price of such intangibles, along with the value of the product related liabilities that we assume, as intangible assets. We allocate the aggregate purchase price to the fair value of the various tangible and intangible assets in order to determine the appropriate carrying value of the acquired assets and then amortize the cost of the intangible assets as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations over the estimated economic useful life of the related assets. We assess the impairment of identifiable intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value might not be recoverable. Some factors that we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. In assessing the recoverability of its intangible assets, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value of the intangible assets we must determine the fair value of the intangible assets. If the fair value of the intangible assets is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. We review goodwill for impairment in accordance Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets at least annually, and we review all long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In November 2003, we acquired from aaiPharma LLC the exclusive right to sell 25, 75 and 100 milligram dosage strengths of azathioprine tablets in North America under the name Azasan for $2.0 million. The purchase price was fully allocated to product rights and related intangibles and is being amortized over a period of ten years. Although Azasan does not have any patent protection, we believe ten years is an appropriate amortization period based on established product history and managements experience. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, accumulated amortization for the Azasan intangible was $0.6 million and $0.4 million, respectively. In June 2004, we acquired the exclusive U.S. rights to Anusol HC 2.5% (hydrocortisone Cream USP), Anusol HC 25 mg Suppository (Hydrocortisone Acetate), Proctocort Cream (Hydrocortisone Cream USP) 1% and Proctocort Suppositories (Hydrocortisone Acetate Rectal Suppositories, 30 mg) from King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for $13.0 million. The purchase price was fully allocated to product rights and related intangibles and is being amortized over a period of ten years. Although Anusol HC and Proctocort do not have any patent protection, we believe ten years is an appropriate amortization period based on established product history and managements experience. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, accumulated amortization for the King product intangibles was $3.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively. 28 Table of Contents In September 2005, we acquired InKine Pharmaceutical Company, Inc. for $210.0 million. We allocated $74.0 million of the purchase price to in process research and development, $9.3 million to net assets acquired and $37.0 million to specifically identifiable product rights and related intangibles with an ongoing economic benefit to us. We allocated the remaining $89.7 million to goodwill, which is not being amortized. The InKine product rights and related intangibles are being amortized over an average period of 14 years, which we believe is an appropriate amortization period due to the products patent protections and the estimated economic lives of the product rights and related intangibles. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, accumulated amortization for the InKine intangibles was $3.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively. In December 2005, we entered into a License and Supply Agreement with Norgine B.V., granting Salix the exclusive right to sell a patented protected, liquid PEG bowel cleansing product, NRL 944, in the United States. In August 2006, we received Food and Drug Administration marketing approval for NRL 944 under the branded name of MoviPrep. In January 2007 the United States Patent Office issued a patent providing coverage to September 1, 2024. In August 2006, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Salix made a $15.1 million payment to Norgine. We are amortizing the milestone payment over a period of 17.3 years, which we believe is an appropriate amortization period due to the products patent protection and the estimated economic life of the related intangible. At December 31, 2006, accumulated amortization for the MoviPrep intangible was $0.4 million. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Based on a review of specific customer balances, industry experience and the current economic environment, we currently reserve for specific past due accounts that may represent collection concerns plus a percentage of our outstanding trade accounts receivable balance as an allowance for uncollectible accounts, which at December 31, 2006 and 2005 was approximately $2.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Refer to Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for a roll forward of the allowance for uncollectible accounts. Investments We consider all investments that have a maturity of greater than three months and less than one year to be short term investments. All securities with maturities beyond one year are considered long term investments. Our investments as of December 31, 2005 consist of government agency and high grade corporate bonds and are classified as available for sale. All available for sale investments are classified as current, as we have the ability to use them for current operations and investing purposes. As of December 31, 2006, all of our investments have matured. Research and Development In accordance with its policy, we expense research and development costs, both internal and externally contracted, as incurred. Due to increased development activity levels and the way in which many of our long term development contracts are structured, we conducted a review of our process of estimating research and development expenses during the first quarter of 2006. Based on that review, we refined our process of estimating certain externally contracted development activities to more closely align the related expense with the level of progress achieved and services received during the period. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, the refined estimation process was implemented in the first quarter of 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the prepaid amount related to on going research and development activities was $2.1 million. This prepaid amount, which will be charged to expense in future periods as the related research and development activities are performed under the contracts, resulted in a reduction of research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 and a corresponding increase in income from operations of $2.1 million, and net income of $2.0 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. The refined estimation process will continue to be applied on the same basis in future periods. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Revenues totaled $208.5 million, $154.9 million and $105.5 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 consisted solely of net product revenues. Revenues for the year ended 29 Table of Contents December 31, 2005 included net product revenues of $154.7 million and revenues from collaborative agreements of $0.2 million. Revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004 included net product revenues of $101.7 million and revenues from collaborative agreements of $3.8 million. We expect that future revenues will consist solely or primarily of net product revenue. Net product revenue increases from 2005 to 2006 were due to increased sales of Xifaxan and Visicol, and the launch of OsmoPrep and MoviPrep during the second and fourth quarters of 2006, respectively, offset by decreased Colazal sales. Net product revenue increases from 2004 to 2005 were due to increased sales of Colazal, Xifaxan, Azasan, Anusol HC and Proctocort, and the addition of Visicol during the fourth quarter of 2005. Increased sales from 2005 to 2006 were primarily driven by prescription growth for Xifaxan of 118%, respectively, as well as price increases for all of our products. Colazal prescriptions increased 10% year over year from 2005 to 2006, thus the decrease in Colazal revenue reflects a draw down of wholesaler inventories in 2006, offset by price increases of 9%. As planned, Colazals contribution as a percentage of total product revenue incrementally decreased during 2006 due to the expansion of our product portfolio with the launch of our bowel cleansing products and as Xifaxan sales continued to ramp up. Colazal sales contributed 50% of total product revenue for 2006 compared to 71% for 2005 and 84% for 2004. We expect Colazals contribution as a percentage of total product revenue will continue to moderate going forward. Increases in revenue reducing items from 2005 to 2006 were due primarily to increases in allowances for managed care agreements as a result of increased product sales and the allowance for product returns associated with Colazal, Visicol, Anusol and Proctocort. Increased sales from 2004 to 2005 were primarily driven by prescription growth for Colazal and Xifaxan of 7% and 489%, respectively, as well as price increases for all of our products and the introduction of the Colazal 500 count and Xifaxan 100 count bottles. Increases in revenue reducing items from 2004 to 2005 were due primarily to increases in allowances for managed care agreements as a result of increased product sales and the allowance for product returns associated with the commercial launch of Xifaxan. Total costs and expenses were $178.2 million, $216.0 million, and $98.8 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Excluding the September 2005 one time charge of $74.0 million for the write off of in process research and development associated with the acquisition of InKine, our higher operating expenses in absolute terms from 2005 to 2006 were due primarily to increased research and development activities, increased cost of products sold related to the corresponding increase in product revenues, and increased selling, general and administrative expenses due to the expansion of our sales force in connection with the InKine merger and the launches of OsmoPrep and MoviPrep. Higher operating expenses from 2004 to 2005, excluding the one time charge of $74.0 million write off of in process research and development, were due to on going studies pursuing additional indications for rifaximin and on going Phase III studies for granulated mesalamine and commercial development activities. We recognized cost of products sold of $41.4 million, $34.2 million and $21.8 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Gross margin on total product revenue was 80%, 78% and 79% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in cost of products sold from 2005 to 2006 was due primarily to increased sales of Xifaxan and Visicol and the additions of OsmoPrep and MoviPrep during the second and third quarters, respectively. The increases in cost of products sold and decreased gross margin from 2004 to 2005 was due primarily to increased sales of Colazal and Xifaxan and a one time write off of $2.7 million of obsolete inventories associated with the initial launch of Xifaxan. Cost of products sold does not include amortization of product rights and intangibles. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies Intangible Assets and Goodwill above. License fees and costs related to collaborative agreements were $1.3 million, $0.1 million and $1.8 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and relate primarily to payments made to Debiovision, Cedars Sinai, Biorex and Alfa Wassermann under the terms of their license agreements. Research and development expense was $47.9 million, $34.6 million and $20.4 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses from 2005 to 2006 was due primarily to the expansion of our Colazal life cycle management program through initiatives to strengthen and support our 1100mg balsalazide tablet submission, our Colazal pediatric exclusivity filing and the costs associated with ongoing late stage studies to expand the Xifaxan label. The increase in research and development expense from 2004 to 2005 was primarily due to on going studies pursuing additional indications for rifaximin, on going Phase III studies for granulated mesalamine and expenses associated with licensing fees. To date, we have incurred research and 30 Table of Contents development expense of approximately $37.0 million for balsalazide, $51.4 million for rifaximin and $20.6 million for granulated mesalamine. Due to the risks and uncertainties of the drug development and regulatory approval process, research and development expenditures are difficult to forecast and subject to unexpected increases. As disclosed in Note 2 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, due to increased development activities and the way in which many of our long term development contracts are structured, we have refined our process of estimating development activities to more closely align expenses with the level of progress achieved. We expect research and development costs to increase in absolute terms as we pursue additional indications and formulations for balsalazide and rifaximin, and continue to develop granulated mesalamine, and if and when we acquire new products. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $82.6 million, $70.8 million and $54.1 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In absolute terms, the increase from 2005 to 2006 was primarily due to launch and training activities associated with our two new purgative products, OsmoPrep and MoviPrep, and the expansion of our sales force and infrastructure subsequent to the InKine merger. The increase from 2004 to 2005 was primarily due to increased commercial development activities which include expansion of the sales force and InKine merger related expenses. Interest and other income, net was $2.6 million, $1.2 million and $0.6 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase from 2005 to 2006 and from 2004 to 2005 was primarily due to higher average daily cash balances and increased short term interest rates. Income tax expense was $1.4 million, $0.7 million and $0.4 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 4.2%, (1.2)% and 5.6% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, due to the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $111.1 million, $128.7 million and $87.3 million, respectively. These carryforwards will expire on various dates beginning in 2007 through 2024 if not utilized. Utilization of the federal net operating loss and credit carryforwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to the change in ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The annual limitation might result in the expiration of net operating losses and credits before utilization. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a presentation of our quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES From inception until first achieving profitability in the third quarter of 2004, we financed product development, operations and capital expenditures primarily from public and private sales of equity securities and from funding arrangements with collaborative partners. Since launching Colazal in January 2001, net product revenue has been a growing source of cash, a trend that we expect to continue. As of December 31, 2006, we had $76.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments compared to $68.2 million as of December 31, 2005. Net cash provided by operating activities was $17.8 million and $3.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and cash used in operating activities was $5.0 million in 2004. Positive operating cash flows in 2006 was primarily attributable to increased earnings, partially offset by increased accounts receivable balances due to increased sales in December 2006 and decreased accounts payable and accrued liability balances. Positive operating cash flows in 2005 were primarily attributable to increased earnings, excluding the impact of non cash flow items including in process research and development and depreciation and amortization, partially offset by increased accounts receivable and other current assets. Negative operating cash flows during 2004 were primarily attributable to increases in accounts receivable, inventory and other asset balances attributed to our business growth. Net cash used in investing activities was $12.8 million in 2006 and was primarily attributable to the acquisition of MoviPrep and the purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by $1.0 million of investments that matured or were called by the issuers. Net cash provided by investing activities was $9.5 million in 2005 and was primarily attributable to proceeds from the maturity of investments and net cash acquired in the InKine acquisition, partially 31 Table of Contents offset by the purchase of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $7.4 million in 2004 and was primarily attributable to the acquisition of the U.S. rights to Anusol and Proctocort from King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., partially offset by $6.0 million of investments that matured or were called by the issuers. Net cash provided by financing activities was $4.3 million, $6.5 million and $5.7 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and was attributable to the exercise of stock options. As of December 31, 2006, we had non cancelable purchase order commitments for inventory purchases of approximately $18.2 million. We anticipate significant expenditures related to our on going sales, marketing, product launch and development efforts associated with Colazal, Xifaxan, Visicol, Azasan, Anusol HC, Proctocort, OsmoPrep, MoviPrep, Pepcid Oral Suspension and granulated mesalamine. To the extent we acquire rights to additional products, we will incur additional expenditures. Our contractual commitments for non cancelable purchase commitments of inventory and minimum lease obligations for all non cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2006 are as follows (in thousands): Total &lt; 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years &gt; 5 years Operating leases $ 17,219 $ 2,945 $ 5,180 $ 4,190 $ 4,904 Purchase commitments 18,222 18,222 Total $ 35,441 $ 21,167 $ 5,180 $ 4,190 $ 4,904 In February 2007, Salix also entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Facility) with the lenders from time to time parties to the Credit Agreement (the Lenders), Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent, and RBC Centura Bank, as Documentation Agent. Salix borrowed $15.0 million under the Credit Facility at closing. The Credit Facility is a $100.0 million revolving credit facility that matures in February 2012. The Credit Facility includes a $5.0 million swing line commitment and may be fully utilized for the issuance of letters of credit. Amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by our subsidiaries pursuant to a Subsidiary Guaranty. Virtually all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries, including our ownership interest in the equity securities of our subsidiaries, secure our obligations under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either (a) a base rate equal to the higher of (i) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (ii) the Bank of America prime rate, or (b) a Eurodollar rate (based on LIBOR), plus, in each case, a percentage rate that fluctuates, based on the ratio of our funded debt to EBITDA (income before income taxes plus interest expense and depreciation and amortization), from 0.00% to 0.75% for base rate borrowings and 1.00% to 1.75% for Eurodollar rate borrowings. The Credit Facility contains various representations, warranties and affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for financings of this type. The affirmative covenants include requirements for Salix to deliver financial statements and other financial information; provide notification to the lenders of events of default, litigation, changes in accounting policies and other adverse changes; pay and perform its obligations; maintain its and its subsidiaries corporate existence; maintain its property and insurance; comply with laws and material contracts; as well as other requirements. The negative covenants include limitations on the creation of liens; investments and acquisitions; indebtedness; mergers; sales of assets and dispositions of property; dividends and distributions; changes in the nature of the business of Salix and its subsidiaries; transactions with affiliates; use of the proceeds of loans; accounting changes; prepayments of indebtedness; and other matters. The financial covenants include a leverage test and a fixed charge test. The Credit Facility also has customary defaults, including nonpayment of principal, interest or fees; failure to perform or observe certain specified covenants when due; failure of any subsidiary to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in the Subsidiary Guaranty; failure to perform or observe any other covenants or agreements contained in any of the loan documents within 30 days after such covenants or agreements are due; material misrepresentations; cross defaults on other indebtedness greater than $5.0 million; bankruptcy or insolvency; unstayed judgments greater than $5.0 million or non monetary final judgments that could have a material adverse 32 Table of Contents effect individually or in the aggregate; invalidity of the loan documents; loss of any material license, permit or franchise of Salix or any of its subsidiaries; a change of control; and other matters. In an event of default under the Credit Facility, the obligations of the lenders to make loans or issue letters of credit terminate and the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, become immediately due and payable. The Credit Facility may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions (including the acquisition) and other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $113.0 million and cash and cash equivalent balances of $76.5 million. We believe our cash and cash equivalent balances, plus borrowing under our credit facility, should be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. However, our actual cash needs might vary materially from those now planned because of a number of factors, including the status of competitive products, including potential generics, our success selling products, the results of research and development activities, FDA and foreign regulatory processes, establishment of and change in collaborative relationships, technological advances by us and other pharmaceutical companies, and whether we acquire rights to additional products. We might seek additional debt or equity financing or both to fund our operations or acquisitions. If we incur more debt, we might be restricted in our ability to raise additional capital and might be subject to financial and restrictive covenants. If we issued additional equity, our stockholders could suffer dilution. We might also enter into additional collaborative arrangements that could provide us with additional funding in the form of equity, debt, licensing, milestone and or royalty payments. We might not be able to enter into such arrangements or raise any additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), which is an interpretation of SFAS 109 Accounting for Income Taxes. This interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. This Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting FIN 48 on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). The statement provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. SFAS 157 references fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. The statement applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. SFAS 157 does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. It is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not believe adoption of SFAS 157 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 108, (SAB 108), Financial Statements Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. SAB 108 provides guidance on the consideration of prior year misstatements in determining whether the current years financial statements are materially misstated. The SEC staff indicates that registrants should quantify the impact of correcting all misstatements, including both the carryover and reversing effects of prior year misstatements, on the current year financial statements. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. Registrants may either restate their financials for any material misstatements arising from the application of SAB 108 or recognize a cumulative effect of applying SAB 108 within the current year opening balance in retained earnings. Our adoption of SAB 108 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT We operate in a highly competitive environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following statement highlights some of these risks. For more detail, see Item 1A Risk Factors. 33 Table of Contents Statements contained in this Form 10 K that are not historical facts are or might constitute forward looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our expectations might not be attained. Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations expressed in the report include, among others: intense competition, including potential generics; management of growth; the high cost and uncertainty of the research, clinical trials and other development activities involving pharmaceutical products; the unpredictability of the duration and results of regulatory review of New Drug Applications and Investigational New Drug Applications; the risks associated with the acquisition and integration of InKine; our dependence on our first nine pharmaceutical products, particularly Colazal and Xifaxan, and the uncertainty of market acceptance of our products; the uncertainty of obtaining, and our dependence on, third parties to manufacture and sell our products; the possible impairment of, or inability to obtain, intellectual property rights and the costs of obtaining such rights from third parties; and results of future litigation and other risk factors detailed from time to time in our other SEC filings. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our purchases of raw materials are denominated primarily in Euros. Translation into our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, has not historically had a material impact on our financial position. Additionally, our net assets denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar have not historically exposed us to material risk associated with fluctuations in currency rates. Given these facts, we have not considered it necessary to use foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments to manage changes in currency rates. However, these circumstances might change. 
</SECTION>
