<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: EMDEON CORP
CIK: 0001009575
SIC: 7374
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070301
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Item 7 contains forward looking statements with respect to possible events, outcomes or results that are, and are expected to continue to be, subject to risks, uncertainties and contingencies, including those identified in this Item. See Forward Looking Statements on page 2. Overview Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, or MD&A, is provided as a supplement to the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report beginning on page F 1 and to provide an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and changes in financial condition. Our MD&A is organized as follows: Introduction. This section provides a general description of our company, a brief discussion of our operating segments, a description of certain recent developments, a description of significant transactions completed during 2006, a summary of the acquisitions we completed during the last three years and background information on certain trends, strategies and other matters discussed in this MD&A. Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies. This section discusses those accounting policies that both are considered important to our financial condition and results of operations, and require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in making estimates and assumptions. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Results of Operations and Results of Operations by Operating Segment. These sections provide our analysis and outlook for the significant line items on our consolidated statements of operations, as well as other information that we deem meaningful to understand our results of operations on both a company wide and a segment by segment basis. Liquidity and Capital Resources. This section provides an analysis of our liquidity and cash flows and discussions of our contractual obligations and commitments, as well as our outlook on our available liquidity as of December 31, 2006. Recent Accounting Pronouncements. This section provides a summary of the most recent authoritative accounting standards and guidance that have either been recently adopted or may be adopted in the future. In this MD&A, dollar amounts are in thousands, unless otherwise noted. Introduction Emdeon Corporation is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in December 1995 and commenced operations in January 1996 as Healtheon Corporation. Our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol HLTH on February 11, 1999 and now trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. We changed our name to Healtheon/WebMD Corporation in November 1999 and to WebMD Corporation in September 2000 and to Emdeon Corporation in October 2005. The change to Emdeon was made in connection with an initial public offering of equity securities by WebMD Health Corp. (which we refer to as WHC), a subsidiary we formed to act as a holding company for the businesses of the WebMD segment and to issue shares in that initial public offering. Because the WebMD name had been more closely associated with our public and private online portals than with our other businesses, our Board of Directors determined that WHC would, following its initial public offering, have the sole right to use the WebMD name and related trademarks. As of December 31, 2006, we owned 84.6% of the aggregate amount of outstanding shares of WHCs Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. As such, we consolidate WHC and reflect separately the minority stockholders 15.4% share of equity and net income of WHC. 69 Table of Contents On November 16, 2006, we completed the sale of a 52% interest in the business that constituted our Emdeon Business Services segment, excluding its ViPS business unit (which we refer to as EBS) to an affiliate of General Atlantic LLC (which we refer to as the EBS Sale). We are accounting for our remaining 48% ownership interest as an equity investment in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, since the ViPS business was not included in the EBS Sale, it is now being reported as a separate operating segment. For a description of the EBS Sale and related matters, see Significant Transactions Completed During 2006. On September 14, 2006, we completed the sale of the Emdeon Practice Services segment (which we refer to as EPS) to Sage Software, Inc. (which we refer to as the EPS Sale). Accordingly, the historical results of EPS, including the gain related to the sale have been reclassified as discontinued operations in our financial statements and our discussions in the MD&A reflect EPS as discontinued operations. For a description of the EPS Sale and related matters, see Significant Transactions Completed During 2006. Operating Segments We have aligned our business into four operating segments and one corporate segment. In connection with the EBS Sale and the revised manner in which management views its operations, we have classified the ViPS segment, formerly a business unit of the EBS segment, as a separate operating segment. The following is a description of each of our operating segments and our corporate segment: WebMD. WebMD provides both public and private online portals. WebMDs public portals for consumers enable them to obtain detailed information on a particular disease or condition, analyze symptoms, locate physicians, store individual healthcare information, receive periodic e newsletters on topics of individual interest, enroll in interactive courses and participate in online communities with peers and experts. WebMDs public portals for physicians and healthcare professionals make it easier for them to access clinical reference sources, stay abreast of the latest clinical information, learn about new treatment options, earn continuing medical education (which we refer to as CME) credit and communicate with peers. WebMDs private portals enable employers and health plans to provide their employees and plan members with access to personalized health and benefit information and decision support technology that helps them make more informed benefit, provider and treatment choices. In addition, WebMD publishes: medical reference textbooks; The Little Blue Book, a physician directory; and, since 2005, WebMD the Magazine, a consumer magazine distributed to physician office waiting rooms. WebMD also conducts in person CME as a result of the acquisition of the assets of Conceptis Technologies, Inc. in December 2005. ViPS. ViPS provides healthcare data management, analytics, decision support and process automation solutions and related information technology services to governmental, Blue Cross Blue Shield and commercial healthcare payers. ViPS develops tools for disease management, predictive modeling, provider performance, HEDIS quality improvement, healthcare fraud detection and financial management. Consultants and outsourcing services are also provided to assess workflow, perform software maintenance, design complex database architectures and perform data analysis and analytic reporting functions. Porex. Porex develops, manufactures and distributes proprietary porous plastic products and components used in healthcare, industrial and consumer applications, which include porous components and finished products for both business to business and OEM applications. Porex also provides technologically advanced sterile surgical products used in craniofacial/oculoplastic reconstruction and aesthetic/cosmetic surgery in hospitals, clinics and private practice surgical offices. Emdeon Business Service. EBS provides solutions that automate key business and administrative functions for healthcare payers and providers, including: electronic patient eligibility and benefit verification; electronic and paper claims processing; electronic and paper paid claims communication services; and patient billing, payment and communications services. In addition, EBS provides clinical communications services that improve the delivery of healthcare by enabling physicians to manage laboratory orders and results, hospital reports and electronic prescriptions. As a result of the EBS Sale, 70 Table of Contents beginning November 17, 2006, the results of EBS are no longer included in the segment results. See Significant Transactions Completed During 2006. Corporate. The Corporate segment provides shared services across all our operating segments. These services include executive personnel, accounting, tax, treasury, legal, human resources, risk management and certain information technology functions. Corporate service costs include compensation related costs, insurance and audit fees, leased property, facilities cost, legal and other professional fees, software maintenance and telecommunication costs. Additionally, in connection with the EPS Sale and EBS Sale, we entered into transition services agreements whereby we have agreed to provide EPS and EBS with certain administrative services, including payroll, accounting, purchasing and procurement, tax, and human resource services, as well as information technology (which we refer to as IT) support. Additionally, EBS will provide us certain administrative services. These services will be provided through the Corporate segment, and the related transition services fee we charge to EBS and EPS, net of the fee we will pay to EBS, will also be included in the Corporate segment, partially offsetting the cost of providing these services. In addition, under the transition services agreement related to EBS, EBS provides certain administrative services to Emdeon, including telecommunication infrastructure and management services, data center support and purchasing and procurement services. Some of the services provided by EBS to Emdeon are, in turn, used to fulfill Emdeons obligations to provide transition services to EPS. See Significant Transactions Completed During 2006. Significant Transactions Completed During 2006 EPS Sale. On August 8, 2006, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement for the sale of EPS to Sage Software, Inc. (which we refer to as Sage Software), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of The Sage Group plc. On September 14, 2006, we completed the EPS Sale. We received net cash proceeds of $532,024, which does not include $35,000 being held in escrow as security for our indemnification obligations under the Stock Purchase Agreement. One third and two thirds of the amount in escrow are scheduled (subject to any claims) to be released twelve and eighteen months from the closing date, and are included in other current assets and other assets, respectively, in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. We incurred approximately $10,700 of professional fees and other expenses associated with the EPS Sale. In connection with the EPS Sale, we recognized a gain of $353,158. In connection with the EPS Sale, we have entered into a transition services agreement with EPS whereby we will provide EPS with certain administrative services, including payroll, accounting, purchasing and procurement, tax and human resource services, as well as IT support. The IT support services are scheduled to continue to September 2008, while the majority of the other services are scheduled to be completed by July 2007. Sage Software may at any time terminate any individual service prior to the scheduled end date, although they will continue to remain liable for any costs we incur due to early termination. In addition to the transition services agreement, EPS agreed to continue its strategic relationship with WebMD and to integrate WebMDs personal health record with the clinical products, including the electronic medical record, of EPS to allow import of data from one to the other, subject to applicable law and privacy and security requirements. EBS Sale. On September 26, 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of a 52% interest in EBS to an affiliate of General Atlantic (which we refer to as GA). On November 16, 2006, we completed the EBS Sale. We received net cash proceeds of approximately $1,209,000 at closing, and received $10,700 subsequent to December 31, 2006, in connection with a preliminary working capital adjustment. Additionally, we advanced cash of $10,000 to EBS at closing, to support general working capital needs and paid $10,016 of expenses on EBSCos behalf through December 31, 2006. These amounts were repaid in full subsequent to December 31, 2006. The acquisition was financed with approximately $925,000 in bank debt and an investment of approximately $320,000 by GA. The EBS Sale was structured so that Emdeon and GA each own interests in a limited liability company, EBS Master LLC (which we refer to as EBSCo), which owns the entities comprising EBS through a wholly owned limited liability company Emdeon Business Services LLC. The bank debt is an obligation of Emdeon Business Services LLC and its subsidiaries and is guaranteed by EBSCo, but is not an obligation of or guaranteed by Emdeon or any of Emdeons subsidiaries. Emdeons 48% ownership interest in EBSCo is reflected as an investment in Emdeons consolidated financial statements and 71 Table of Contents is being accounted for under the equity method. In connection with the EBS Sale, we recognized a gain of $352,297. In connection with the EBS Sale, we entered into a transition services agreement whereby we will provide EBSCo with certain administrative services, including payroll, accounting, tax, treasury, contract and litigation support, real estate vendor management and human resource services, as well as IT support. Additionally, EBSCo will provide us certain administrative services, including telecommunication infrastructure and management services, data center support and purchasing and procurement services. Some of the services provided by EBS to Emdeon are, in turn, used to fulfill Emdeons obligations to provide transition services to EPS. The services have various scheduled end dates, the longest of which extend one year from the EBS Sale. EBSCo or Emdeon may at any time terminate any individual service being received prior to the scheduled end date, although they will continue to remain liable for any costs incurred by the providing party due to early termination. In addition to the transition services agreement, EBS agreed to license certain de identified data to Emdeon and its subsidiaries, including WebMD, for use in the development and commercialization of certain applications that use clinical information, including consumer decision support applications. Tender Offer. On October 20, 2006, we commenced a tender offer to purchase, as amended, up to 140,000,000 shares of Emdeon Common Stock at a price of $12.00 per share (which we refer to as the 2006 Tender Offer). On December 4, 2006, we completed the 2006 Tender Offer and, as a result, repurchased 129,234,164 shares of Emdeon Common Stock at a price of $12.00 per share. The total cost of the 2006 Tender Offer was approximately $1.55 billion, which includes approximately $1,309 of costs directly attributable to the purchase. Through the 2006 Tender Offer and our stock repurchase programs, we purchased a total of 137,474,409 shares of Emdeon Common Stock during 2006, at an average price of $11.90 per share. New Stock Repurchase Plan. In December 2006, we announced a new stock repurchase program (which we refer to as the 2006 Repurchase Program), through which we were authorized to use up to $100,000 to purchase shares of Emdeon Common Stock from time to time, in the open market, through block trades or in private transactions. The 2006 Repurchase Program replaced a previous stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2006, $88,676 remained available for repurchases under the 2006 Repurchase Program. Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired five companies, Subimo LLC (which we refer to as Subimo), Medsite, Inc. (which we refer to as Medsite), Interactive Payer Network, Inc. (which we refer to as IPN), Summex Corporation (which we refer to as Summex) and eMedicine.com, Inc. (which we refer to as eMedicine), or which we collectively called the 2006 Acquisitions. On December 15, 2006, through WHC, we acquired Subimo, a privately held provider of healthcare decision support applications to large employers, health plans and financial institutions. The total purchase consideration for Subimo was approximately $59,320, comprised of $32,820 in cash paid at closing, net of cash acquired, $26,000 of WHC equity and $500 of estimated acquisition costs. The $26,000 of WHC equity, equal to 640,930 shares of WHC Class A Common Stock, will not be issued until December 2008, subject to certain conditions. While a maximum of 246,508 of these shares may be used to settle any outstanding claims or warranties against the sellers, the remaining 394,422 of these shares will be issued with certainty. Accordingly, we recorded a gain to equity of $11,627, in connection with the issuance of these 394,422 WHC shares. The results of operations of Subimo have been included in our financial statements from December 15, 2006, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the WebMD segment. On September 11, 2006, through WHC, we acquired the interactive medical education, promotion and physician recruitment businesses of Medsite. The total purchase consideration for Medsite was approximately $31,467, comprised of $30,682 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $785 of estimated acquisition costs. The results of operations of Medsite have been included in our financial statements from September 11, 2006, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the WebMD segment. 72 Table of Contents On July 18, 2006, we acquired IPN, a privately held provider of healthcare electronic data interchange services. The total purchase consideration for IPN was approximately $3,907, comprised of $3,799 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $108 of estimated acquisition costs. In addition, we agreed to pay up to an additional $3,000 in cash over a two year period beginning in August 2007 if certain financial milestones are achieved. The IPN business is part of the EBS businesses that were sold on November 16, 2006. Accordingly, the results of operations of IPN have been included in our financial statements, specifically within our EBS segment, from July 18, 2006, the closing date of the acquisition, through November 16, 2006, the closing date of the EBS Sale. The obligation to pay up to $3,000 in earn out payments was transferred in connection with the EBS Sale and is no longer our obligation. On June 13, 2006, through WHC, we acquired Summex, a provider of health and wellness programs that include online and offline health risk assessments, lifestyle education and personalized telephonic health coaching. The total purchase consideration for Summex was approximately $30,191, comprised of $29,691 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $500 of estimated acquisition costs. In addition, we have agreed to pay up to an additional $10,000 in cash over a two year period if certain financial milestones are achieved. The results of operations of Summex have been included in our financial statements from June 13, 2006, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the WebMD segment. On January 17, 2006, through WHC, we acquired eMedicine, a privately held online publisher of medical reference information for physicians and other healthcare professionals. The total purchase consideration for eMedicine was approximately $25,195, comprised of $24,495 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $700 of estimated acquisition costs. The results of operations of eMedicine have been included in our financial statements from January 17, 2006, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the WebMD segment. During 2005, we acquired the assets of Conceptis Technologies, Inc. (which we refer to as Conceptis) and HealthShare Technology, Inc. (which we refer to as HealthShare), or which we collectively called the 2005 Acquisitions. On December 2, 2005, through WHC, we acquired the assets of and assumed certain liabilities of Conceptis, a privately held Montreal based provider of online and offline medical education and promotion aimed at physicians and other healthcare professionals. The total purchase consideration for Conceptis was approximately $19,859, comprised of $19,256 in cash and $603 of estimated acquisition costs. The results of operations of Conceptis have been included in our financial statements from December 2, 2005, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the WebMD segment. On March 14, 2005, through WHC, we acquired HealthShare, a privately held company that provides online tools that compare cost and quality measures of hospitals for use by consumers, providers and health plans. The total purchase consideration for HealthShare was approximately $29,985, comprised of $29,533 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $452 of estimated acquisition costs. The results of operations of HealthShare have been included in our financial statements from March 14, 2005, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the WebMD segment. During 2004, we acquired six companies, MedicineNet, Inc. (which we refer to as MedicineNet), Esters Filtertechnik GmbH (which we refer to as Esters), RxList, LLC (which we refer to as RxList), ViPS, Inc. (which we refer to as ViPS), Epor, Inc. (which we refer to as Epor) and Dakota Imaging, Inc. (which we refer to as Dakota), or which we collectively called the 2004 Acquisitions. On December 24, 2004, through WHC, we acquired MedicineNet, a privately held health information Web site for consumers. The total purchase consideration for MedicineNet was approximately $17,223, comprised of $16,732 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $491 of acquisition costs. In addition, we have agreed to pay up to an additional $15,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2006, if the number of page views on MedicineNets Web sites exceeds certain thresholds for the year ended December 31, 2005. We paid $7,250 in April 2006 as a result of these thresholds being met. The results of operations of MedicineNet have been included in the WebMD segment. 73 Table of Contents During October 2004, we acquired Esters, a privately held distributor of porous plastic products and components. The total purchase consideration for Esters was approximately $3,333, comprised of $3,160 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $173 of acquisition costs. The results of operations of Esters have been included in our financial statements from the closing date of the acquisition and are included in the Porex segment. On October 1, 2004, through WHC, we acquired RxList, a privately held provider of an online drug directory for consumers and healthcare professionals. The total purchase consideration for RxList was approximately $5,216, comprised of $4,500 in cash at the time of acquisition, $500 paid in 2006 and $216 of acquisition costs. In addition, we have agreed to pay up to an additional $2,500 during each of the three month periods ended March 31, 2006 and 2007, if the number of page views on RxLists Web sites exceeds certain thresholds for each of the three month periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We paid $2,387 in February 2006 as a result of the achievement of those page views exceeding certain thresholds. The results of operations of RxList have been included in our financial statements from October 1, 2004, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the WebMD segment. On August 11, 2004, we completed the acquisition of ViPS, a privately held provider of information technology, decision support solutions and consulting services to government, Blue Cross Blue Shield and commercial healthcare payers. The total purchase consideration for ViPS was approximately $166,588, comprised of $165,208 in cash, net of cash acquired, and $1,380 of acquisition costs. The results of operations of ViPS have been included in our financial statements from August 11, 2004, the closing date of the acquisition, and are reflected as its own operating segment. On July 15, 2004, we acquired the assets of Epor, a privately held company based in Los Angeles, California. Epor manufactures porous plastic implant products for use in aesthetic and reconstructive surgery of the head and face. The total purchase consideration for Epor was approximately $2,547, comprised of $2,000 in cash at the time of acquisition, $490 to be paid over five years, of which $90 was paid during 2005 and an additional $100 was paid during 2006, and $57 of acquisition costs. The results of operations of Epor have been included in our financial statements from July 15, 2004, the closing date of the acquisition, and are included in the Porex segment. On April 30, 2004, we acquired Dakota, a privately held provider of automated healthcare claims processing technology and business process outsourcing services. We paid approximately $38,979 in cash, net of cash acquired, $527 of acquisition costs and agreed to pay up to an additional $25,000 in cash over a three year period beginning in April 2005 if certain financial milestones are achieved. No payment was made in April 2005 or April 2006 in connection with the first and second earn out years ending March 2005 and March 2006, respectively. The Dakota business is part of the EBS businesses that were sold on November 16, 2006. Accordingly, the results of operations of Dakota have been included in our financial statements, specifically within our EBS segment from April 30, 2004, the closing date of the acquisition, through November 16, 2006, the closing date of the EBS Sale. The obligation to pay up to $25,000 in earn out payments is the obligation of Emdeon and was not transferred in connection with the EBS Sale. Background Information on Certain Trends and Strategies Increased Online Marketing and Education Spending for Healthcare Products. Pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spend large amounts each year marketing their products and educating consumers and physicians about them, however, only a small portion of this amount is currently spent on online services. We believe that these companies, who comprise the majority of WebMDs advertisers and sponsors, are becoming increasingly aware of the effectiveness of the Internet relative to traditional media in providing health, clinical and product related information to consumers and physicians. We expect that this increasing awareness will result in increasing demand for WebMDs services. Changes in Health Plan Design; Health Management Initiatives. While overall healthcare costs have been rising at a rapid annual rate, employers costs of providing healthcare benefits to their employees have 74 Table of Contents been increasing at an even faster rate. In response to these increases, employers are seeking to shift a greater portion of healthcare costs onto their employees and to redefine traditional health benefits. Employers and health plans want to motivate their members and employees to evaluate their healthcare decisions more carefully in order to be more cost effective. As employers continue to implement high deductible and consumer directed healthcare plans (referred to as CDHPs) and related Health Savings Accounts (referred to as HSAs) to achieve these goals, we believe that WebMD will be able to attract more employers and health plans to use its private online portals and related services. In addition, health plans and employers have begun to recognize that encouraging the good health of their members and employees not only benefits the members and employees but also has financial benefits for the health plans and employers. Accordingly, many employers and health plans have been enhancing health management programs and taking steps to provide healthcare information and education to employees and members, including through online services. We believe that WebMD is well positioned to benefit from these trends because WebMDs private portals provide the tools and information employees and plan members need in order to make more informed decisions about healthcare provider, benefit and treatment options. Changes in CMS Procurement Procedures. ViPS is currently in the process of responding to a Request for Proposals issued by The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, for a new indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity or IDIQ, performance based contracting vehicle named Enterprise Systems Development, or ESD, under which ViPS expects CMS to award four to six prime contracts to the bidders that are selected through the process. We understand that it is CMS intent to procure most, if not all, information technology development work through this contract vehicle for approximately the next ten (10) years. Accordingly, there will be fewer companies awarded prime contracts, and those that are selected are likely to receive broader contracts than those made under the PITS contracting vehicle. If ViPS is not selected to be one of the four to six prime contractors under ESD, it will have only the more limited opportunity to pursue work under ESD as a subcontractor. There can be no assurance that ViPS will be awarded a prime contract under ESD or, if it is not awarded a prime contract, that opportunities as a subcontractor will be available or that ViPS will be selected as a subcontractor. As a result, if ViPS is not awarded a prime contract under ESD, its revenue from CMS programs could be significantly reduced. Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of Emdeons financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which were prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience, current business factors, and various other assumptions that we believe are necessary to consider in order to form a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities, the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We are subject to uncertainties such as the impact of future events, economic, environmental and political factors, and changes in our business environment; therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates. Accordingly, the accounting estimates used in preparation of our financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. Changes in estimates are made when circumstances warrant. Such changes in estimates and refinements in estimation methodologies are reflected in reported results of operations; if material, the effects of changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, including those related to revenue recognition, short term and long term investments, deferred tax assets, income taxes, collectibility of customer receivables, prepaid advertising, long lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, software development costs, inventory valuation, Web site development costs, prepaid advertising and distribution services, certain accrued expenses, contingencies, litigation and the value attributed to employee stock options and other stock based awards. 75 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies We believe the following reflects our critical accounting policies and our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Our revenue recognition policies for each reportable operating segment are as follows: WebMD. Revenue from advertising is recognized as advertisements are delivered or as publications are distributed. Revenue from sponsorship arrangements, content syndication and distribution arrangements and licenses of healthcare management tools and private portals as well as related health coaching services are recognized ratably over the term of the applicable agreement. Revenue from the sponsorship of CME is recognized over the period WebMD substantially complete our contractual deliverables as determined by the applicable agreements. Subscription revenue is recognized over the subscription period. When contractual arrangements contain multiple elements, revenue is allocated to each element based on its relative fair value determined using prices charged when elements are sold separately. In certain instances where fair value does not exist for all the elements, the amount of revenue allocated to the delivered elements equals the total consideration less the fair value of the undelivered elements. In instances where fair value does not exist for the undelivered elements, revenue is recognized when the last element is delivered. ViPS. ViPS generates revenue by licensing data warehousing and decision support software and providing related support and maintenance for that software, and by providing information technology consulting services to payers, including governmental payers. We charge healthcare payers annual license fees, which are typically based on the number of covered members, for use of their software and provide business and information technology consulting services to them on a time and materials basis. The professional consulting services we provide to certain governmental agencies are typically billed on a cost plus fee structure. Data warehousing and decision support software and the related support and maintenance agreements are generally sold as bundled time based license agreements and, accordingly, the revenue for both the software and related support and maintenance is recognized ratably over the term of the license and maintenance agreement. Revenue for consulting services is recognized as the services are provided. Porex. Porex develops, manufactures and distributes porous plastic products and components. For standard products, Porex recognizes revenue upon shipment of product, net of sales returns and allowances. For sales of certain custom products, Porex recognizes revenue upon completion and customer acceptance. Recognition of amounts received in advance is deferred until all criteria have been met. Emdeon Business Services. Through the date of the EBS Sale on November 16, 2006, healthcare payers and providers paid us fees for transaction services, generally on either a per transaction basis or, in the case of some providers, on a monthly fixed fee basis. Healthcare payers and providers also paid us fees for document conversion, patient statement and paid claims communication services, typically on a per document, per statement or per communication basis. EBS generally charged a one time implementation fee to healthcare payers and providers at the inception of a contract, in connection with their related setup to submit and receive medical claims and other related transactions through EBSs clearinghouse network. Revenue for transaction services, patient statement and paid claims communication services was recognized as the services were provided. The implementation fees were deferred and amortized to revenue on a straight line basis over the contract period of the related transaction processing services, which generally vary from one to three years. Long Lived Assets Our long lived assets consist of property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets arise from the acquisitions we have made. The amount assigned to intangible assets is subjective and based on our estimates of the future benefit of the intangible asset using accepted valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow and replacement cost models. Our long lived assets, excluding goodwill, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which we determined based on the consideration of several factors, including the period of time the 76 Table of Contents asset is expected to remain in service. We evaluate the carrying value and remaining useful lives of long lived assets, excluding goodwill, whenever indicators of impairment are present. We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill annually, or whenever indicators of impairment are present. We use a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill noted as a result of our impairment testing in 2006, 2005 or 2004. Investments Our investments, at December 31, 2006, consisted principally of certificates of deposit, auction rate securities, money market funds, asset back securities and U.S. Treasury Notes. Each reporting period we evaluate the carrying value of our investments and record a loss on investments when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. Our investments are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value. We do not recognize gains on an investment until sold. Unrealized gains and losses are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Once realized, the gains and losses and declines in value determined to be other than temporary are recorded. A decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary if we do not have the intent and ability to retain the investment until any anticipated recovery in market value, the extent and length of the time to which the market value has been less than cost and the financial condition and near term prospects of the investment. Sale of Subsidiary Stock Our WHC subsidiary issues their Class A Common Stock in various transactions, which results in a dilution of our percentage ownership in WHC. We account for the sale of WHC Class A Common Stock in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 51 Accounting for Sales of Stock by a Subsidiary. The difference between the carrying amount of our investment in WHC before and after the issuance of WHC Class A Common Stock is considered either a gain or loss and is reflected as a component of our stockholders equity. During 2006, WHC issued Class A Common Stock for the following transactions, which resulted in our ownership in WHC decreasing to 84.6%, as of December 31, 2006, from 85.8%, as of December 31, 2005: Acquisition of Subimo. During the fourth quarter of 2006, WHC purchased Subimo for cash and agreed to the future issuance of WHC Class A Common Stock (see Introduction Acquisitions above for further details) and, accordingly, we recorded a gain to equity of $11,627 in connection with the issuance of the non contingent portion of this WHC Class A Common Stock. Other issuances. During 2006, WHC stock options were exercised and restricted stock awards were released in accordance with WHCs 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan and WHC issued WHC Class A Common Stock to its Board of Directors as payment for their services. The issuance of these shares resulted in an aggregate gain of $5,152. We expect to continue to record gains in the future related to the future issuances of WHC Class A Common Stock in these types of transactions. Equity Investment in EBSCo We account for our equity investment in EBSCo in accordance with APB Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock (which we refer to as APB 18), which stipulates that the equity method should be used to account for investments whereby an investor has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of an investee, but does not exercise control. APB 18 generally considers an investor to have the ability to exercise significant influence when it owns 20% or more of the voting stock of an investee. We believe our equity investment in EBSCo meets these criteria. We assess the recoverability of the carrying value of our investment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a loss in value that is other than a temporary decline. A decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, but not limited to, if we do not have the intent and ability to retain the investment until any anticipated recovery in carrying amount of the investment, inability of the investment to sustain an earnings capacity which would justify the carrying amount or the current fair value of the investment is less than its carrying amount. The current fair value of our equity investment in EBSCo exceeds its carrying amount. Stock Based Compensation In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (which we refer to as FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (which we refer to as 77 Table of Contents SFAS) No. 123, (Revised 2004): Share Based Payment (which we refer to as SFAS 123R), which replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (which we refer to as SFAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized as compensation expense over the service period (generally the vesting period) in the consolidated financial statements based on their fair values. We adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, and elected to use the modified prospective transition method and as a result, prior period results were not restated. Under the modified prospective method, awards that were granted or modified on or after January 1, 2006, are measured and accounted for in accordance with SFAS 123R. Unvested stock options and restricted stock awards that were granted prior to January 1, 2006, will continue to be accounted for in accordance with SFAS 123, using the same grant date fair value and same expense attribution method used under SFAS 123, except that all awards are recognized in the results of operations over the remaining vesting periods. The impact of forfeitures that may occur prior to vesting is also estimated and considered in the amount recognized for all stock based compensation beginning January 1, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $40,709 and $46,383 of unrecognized stock based compensation expense related to unvested awards (net of estimated forfeitures) is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.48 years and 2.04 years, related to the Emdeon and WHC stock based compensation plans. The total recognition period for the remaining unrecognized stock based compensation expense for both the Emdeon and WHC stock based compensation plans is approximately four years; however, the majority of this cost will be recognized over the next two years, in accordance with our vesting provisions. The fair value of each option granted is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used in this model are expected dividend yield, expected volatility, risk free interest rate and expected term. The expected volatility for stock options to purchase Emdeon Common Stock is based on implied volatility from traded options of Emdeon Common Stock combined with historical volatility of Emdeons Common Stock. The expected volatility for stock options to purchase WHC Class A Common Stock is based on implied volatility from traded options of stock of comparable companies combined with historical stock price volatility of comparable companies. Deferred Tax Assets Our deferred tax assets are comprised primarily of net operating loss (which we refer to as NOL) carryforwards. At December 31, 2006, we had NOL carryforwards of approximately $1.2 billion, which expire at varying dates from 2011 through 2026. These loss carryforwards may be used to offset taxable income in future periods, reducing the amount of taxes we might otherwise be required to pay. As of December 31, 2006, valuation allowances were established for all domestic net deferred tax assets because of the uncertainty of realization of the deferred tax assets due to a lack of history of generating taxable income. Realization is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOL carryforwards in future periods. Although realization is not currently assured, management evaluates the need for a valuation allowance each quarter, and in the future, should management determine that realization of net deferred tax assets is more likely than not, some or all of the valuation allowance will be reversed, and our effective tax rate may be reduced. The valuation allowance excludes the impact of any deferred items related to certain of our foreign operations as the realization of the deferred items for these operations is likely. Tax Contingencies Our tax contingencies are recorded to address potential exposures involving tax positions we have taken that could be challenged by tax authorities. These potential exposures result from the varying application of statutes, rules, regulations and interpretations. Our estimates of tax contingencies reflect assumptions and judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions. We believe that these assumptions and judgments are reasonable; however, our accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter and the ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the amount that we have accrued. 78 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data and expresses that data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented (amounts in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 $ % $ % $ % Revenue $ 1,098,608 100.0 $ 1,026,475 100.0 $ 918,097 100.0 Costs and expenses: Costs of operations 623,758 56.8 595,654 58.0 536,289 58.4 Development and engineering 33,649 3.1 35,653 3.5 33,141 3.6 Sales, marketing, general and administrative 288,015 26.2 254,887 24.9 244,516 26.6 Depreciation and amortization 61,976 5.6 60,905 5.9 48,707 5.3 Legal expense 2,578 0.2 17,835 1.7 9,230 1.0 Gain on sale of EBS 352,297 32.1 Loss (gain) on investments 6,365 0.6 (457 ) Interest income 32,339 2.9 21,527 2.1 18,716 2.0 Interest expense 18,779 1.7 16,322 1.6 19,251 2.1 Other expense, net 1,674 0.2 3,765 0.4 4,535 0.5 Income from continuing operations before income tax provision (benefit) 452,815 41.2 56,616 5.5 41,601 4.5 Income tax provision (benefit) 56,193 5.1 (1,001 ) (0.1 ) 4,223 0.4 Minority interest in WHC 706 0.1 908 0.1 Equity in earnings of EBS Master LLC 763 0.1 Income from continuing operations 396,679 36.1 56,709 5.5 37,378 4.1 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 371,060 33.8 16,265 1.6 1,956 0.2 Net income $ 767,739 69.9 $ 72,974 7.1 $ 39,334 4.3 Revenue is currently derived from our three business segments: WebMD, ViPS and Porex, and was derived through our EBS segment through the date of the EBS Sale on November 16, 2006. WebMD services include: advertising, sponsorship, CME, content syndication and distribution; and licenses of private online portals to employers, healthcare payers and others. In addition, WebMD derives revenue from sales of, and advertising in, its physician directories, subscriptions to its professional medical reference textbooks, and advertisements in WebMD the Magazine. As a result of the acquisition of the assets of Conceptis, WebMD also generates revenue from in person CME programs. ViPS provides healthcare data management, analytics, decision support and process automation solutions and related information technology services to governmental, Blue Cross Blue Shield and commercial healthcare payers and performs software maintenance and consulting services for governmental agencies involved in healthcare. Porex revenue includes the sale of porous plastic components used to control the flow of fluids and gases for use in healthcare, industrial and consumer applications, as well as finished products used in the medical device and surgical markets. EBS, which was a segment through November 16, 2006 (the date of the EBS Sale) provided solutions that automate key business and administrative functions for healthcare payers and providers, including: electronic patient eligibility and benefit verification; electronic and paper claims processing; electronic and paper paid claims communication services; and patient billing, payment and communications services. EBS also provided clinical communications services that enable physicians to manage laboratory orders and results, hospital reports and electronic prescriptions. A significant portion of EBS revenue was generated from the countrys largest national and regional healthcare payers. Cost of operations consists of costs related to services and products we provide to customers and costs associated with the operation and maintenance of our networks. These costs include salaries and related expenses, including non cash stock based compensation expenses, for network operations personnel and customer support personnel, telecommunication costs, maintenance of network equipment, cost of postage 79 Table of Contents related to our automated print and mail services and paid claims communication services, a portion of facilities expenses, leased facilities and personnel costs and sales commissions paid to certain distributors of the EBS products and non cash expenses related to prepaid advertising costs. In addition, cost of operations includes raw materials, direct labor and manufacturing overhead, such as fringe benefits and indirect labor related to our Porex segment. Development and engineering expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including non cash stock based compensation expenses, associated with the development of applications and services. Expenses include compensation paid to development and engineering personnel, fees to outside contractors and consultants, and the maintenance of capital equipment used in the development process. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of advertising, product and brand promotion, salaries and related expenses, including non cash stock based compensation expenses, for sales, administrative, finance, legal, information technology, human resources and executive personnel. These expenses include items related to account management and marketing personnel, commissions, costs and expenses for marketing programs and trade shows, and fees for professional marketing and advertising services, as well as fees for professional services, costs of general insurance and costs of accounting and internal control systems to support our operations. Also included are non cash expenses related to advertising and distribution services acquired in exchange for our equity securities. Legal expense consists of costs and expenses incurred related to the investigation by the United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina and the SEC. Gain on sale of EBS consists of the gain recognized, including professional fees and other expenses incurred, in association with the EBS Sale. Equity in earnings of EBS Master LLC consists of our portion of the earnings from our 48% ownership in EBSCo. Discontinued operations consist of the historical operations of EPS, net of tax, and the gain recognized from the EPS Sale, net of tax. Our discussions throughout MD&A make references to certain non cash expenses. We consider non cash expenses to be those expenses that result from the issuance of our equity instruments. The following is a summary of our principal non cash expenses: Non cash stock based compensation expense. Expense for 2006 reflects the adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, which requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized as compensation expense over the service period (generally the vesting period) in the consolidated financial statements based on their fair values. Expense for 2005 and 2004 primarily related to restricted stock awards and stock option modifications, as well as the amortization of deferred compensation related to certain acquisitions in 2000. The following table summarizes the non cash stock based compensation expense included in cost of operations, development and engineering, and sales, marketing, general and administrative expense in 2006, 2005 and 2004: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Stock based compensation expense included in: Cost of operations $ 11,280 $ $ Development and engineering 993 Sales, marketing, general and administrative 32,682 4,880 7,860 Total $ 44,955 $ 4,880 $ 7,860 Non cash advertising expense. Expense related to the use of WHCs prepaid advertising inventory that WHC received from News Corporation in exchange for equity instruments Emdeon issued in connection with an agreement Emdeon entered into with News Corporation in 1999 and subsequently amended in 2000. This non cash advertising expense is included in cost of operations when we utilize 80 Table of Contents this advertising inventory in conjunction with offline advertising and sponsorship programs and is included in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense when WHC uses the asset for promotion of WHCs brand or the brand of one of Emdeons other subsidiaries. Non cash distribution expense. Expense related to the amortization of a warrant that Emdeon issued to AOL as part of a strategic alliance Emdeon entered into with Time Warner in May 2001 under which WebMD became the primary provider of healthcare content, tools and services for use on certain AOL properties. The value of the warrant was amortized over the original three year term of the strategic alliance and accordingly we have not recorded any non cash distribution expense since April 2004. Non cash distribution expense is reflected in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense within the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Modification to the Classification of Results The following discussion of our operating results reflects the reclassification of EPS as a discontinued operation in the current year and prior year periods, as a result of the EPS Sale that was completed on September 14, 2006. In addition, our operating results reflect an increase in revenue and an offsetting increase to expenses, primarily within cost of operations, of $39,387, $53,771 and $53,861 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, related to the intercompany activity between EPS and our other operating segments, primarily EBS through September 14, 2006, the date the EPS Sale was completed. This intercompany activity was primarily comprised of print and mail services (including postage) and electronic data interchange (which we refer to as EDI) services provided by EBS to the EPS customer base and related rebates paid by EBS to EPS related to EPSs submission of EDI transactions. These amounts had previously been eliminated in consolidation prior to EPS being reflected as a discontinued operation. In contrast to the EPS Sale, the EBS Sale did not result in the accounting for EBS as a discontinued operation, because the EBS Sale was only a partial sale, through which we retained a 48% ownership interest in EBSCo following the transaction. Accordingly, the historical results of operations for EBS are included in our financial statements for all historical periods, through the date of the EBS Sale on November 16, 2006. Subsequent to the EBS Sale, our 48% portion of EBSCos income is reflected in the line item Equity in earnings of EBS Master LLC. Because of this treatment, our consolidated results of operations for 2006 and 2005, as well as the EBS segment results for these periods, are presented on a basis that makes prior period results not directly comparable to results for the full year of 2006. In our discussion of those results, we will highlight certain underlying trends that may not be apparent based on comparisons of those results with corresponding prior periods. In the discussion below, references to taking into account the EBS Exclusion Period or the impact of the EBS Exclusion Period mean that, in making qualitative comparisons with prior periods in order to highlight significant trends, the results of EBS are excluded in 2006 for the period from November 17, 2006 (the date of the EBS Sale) through December 31, 2006. Our WebMD, ViPS and Porex segment results were not affected by the EBS Sale and comparisons with prior periods are not subject to the considerations applicable to EBS and to our consolidated results. 2006 and 2005 The following discussion is a comparison of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, to the year ended December 31, 2005. Revenue Our total revenue increased 7.0% to $1,098,608 in 2006 from $1,026,475 in 2005. The WebMD, ViPS and Porex segments accounted for $85,643, $8,561 and $6,578, respectively, of the increase. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue of $28,215 from our EBS segment, which is the result of the impact of the EBS Exclusion Period. Acquisitions completed during 2006 and 2005 in our WebMD segment contributed approximately $30,000 to the overall increase in revenue for 2006. Also contributing to the increase in revenue in 2006 was higher advertising and sponsorship revenue from WebMDs public portals and an increase in the number of 81 Table of Contents companies using WebMDs private portal platform. In addition, excluding the impact of the EBS Sale, revenue increased in our Emdeon Business Services segment, primarily as a result of growth in our patient billing and remittance and payment services and an increase in postage rates that went into effect on January 8, 2006. Costs and Expenses Cost of Operations. Cost of operations was $623,758 in 2006, compared to $595,654 in 2005. Our cost of operations represented 56.8% of revenue in 2006, compared to 58.0% of revenue in 2005. Included in cost of operations are non cash stock based compensation expenses of $11,280 for the year ended December 31, 2006, with no corresponding amount in the prior year period, as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. Cost of operations, excluding the non cash stock based compensation expense, was $612,478 or 55.8% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. This increase, in absolute dollars, was primarily due to higher compensation expenses as a result of higher staffing levels and outside personnel expenses related to WebMDs Web site operation and development, increased expenses associated with creating and licensing WebMD content, increased production costs related to the timing of WebMD the Magazine which shipped larger issues in 2006, compared to 2005, the impact on EBS cost of operations of the postal rate increase that went into effect on January 8, 2006 and increased expenses related to the delivery of our consulting services within our ViPS operations. These items were partially offset by lower cost of operations in our EBS segment primarily as a result the impact of the EBS Exclusion Period, and also as a result of lower direct expenses in our EBS segment during 2006, when compared to 2005, through operating efficiencies and cost savings. The decrease in cost of operations as a percentage of revenue, was primarily the result of the increased revenue discussed above, without a proportionate increase in cost of operations, as well as the impact of the EBS Exclusion Period, as EBS products have lower gross margins. Additionally, we encountered lower direct expenses in our EBS segment during 2006, when compared to 2005, through operating efficiencies and cost savings. These operating efficiencies and costs savings included lower direct expenses in the areas of telecommunication charges and paper and other direct material costs, as well as lower personnel related costs. Partially offsetting this improvement was the impact of the postal rate increase which had a negative effect on cost of operations when reflected as a percentage of revenue. Development and Engineering. Development and engineering expense was $33,649 in 2006, compared to $35,653 in 2005. Our development and engineering expense represented 3.1% of revenue in 2006, compared to 3.5% of revenue in 2005. The primary decrease in development and engineering expense, in absolute dollars, was the result of the EBS Exclusion Period. Offsetting this decrease in development and engineering expense was an increase related to non cash stock based compensation of $993 related to the adoption of SFAS 123R and to WebMDs 2006 and 2005 Acquisitions, which due to the timing of these acquisitions, were partially included or not included in our results during 2005. Sales, Marketing, General and Administrative. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense was $288,015 in 2006, compared to $254,887 in 2005. Our sales, marketing, general and administrative expense represented 26.2% of revenue in 2006, compared to 24.9% of revenue in 2005. Included in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense were non cash expenses related to stock based compensation and advertising services. Non cash stock based compensation was $32,682 in 2006, compared to $4,880 in 2005, reflecting the adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. Non cash expenses related to advertising and distribution services were $7,414 in 2006, compared to $10,534 in 2005. The decrease in non cash advertising expense for 2006 was due to lower utilization of our prepaid advertising inventory. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense excluding the non cash expenses discussed above was $247,919, or 22.6% of revenue in 2006, compared to $239,473, or 23.3% of revenue in 2005. The decrease in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense, excluding the non cash expenses discussed above, as a percentage of revenue, was due to our ability to achieve an increase in revenue without incurring a proportionate increase in expenses. We expect that the decrease in these expenses from 2005 to 2006, as a percentage of revenue, would have been greater if not for the impact of the EBS Exclusion Period. This is due to the fact that sales, marketing, general and administrative expenses of EBS represented a lower percentage of revenue than our remaining business. 82 Table of Contents The increase in absolute dollars in 2006, compared to 2005, was primarily due to increased compensation related costs due to higher staffing levels and higher sales commission expenses related to our WebMD segment, which were directly attributable to the increased revenue, as well as increased expenses related to recent acquisitions that were not included, or only partially included a year ago. In contrast, these higher costs at WebMD were partially offset by lower costs in 2006 for EBS related to the impact of the EBS Exclusion Period. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense was $61,976 in 2006, compared to $60,905 in 2005, which represented 5.6% and 5.9% of revenue in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to depreciation and amortization expense relating to the 2006 Acquisitions and 2005 Acquisitions in our WebMD segment. Additionally, depreciation expense increased during 2006, compared to 2005, as a result of increased capital expenditures throughout 2005 and 2006, primarily within our WebMD segment. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in depreciation and amortization expense as a result of the EBS Sale. The EBS business was deemed to be an asset held for sale on September 26, 2006 in connection with the signing of a definitive agreement for the partial sale of that business, and accordingly, no depreciation or amortization expense was recorded for the EBS business during the fourth quarter of 2006. Legal Expense. Legal expense was $2,578 in 2006, compared to $17,835 in 2005. Legal expense represents the external costs and expenses incurred related to the investigation by the United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina and the SEC. While we cannot predict these costs and expenses with certainty and while they may continue to be significant, we expect these costs to continue to be lower in 2007, as compared to 2005, in part because existing insurance policies became available in December 2005 to cover the expenses of certain former officers and employees. In connection with the EPS Sale, we have agreed to indemnify Sage Software with respect to this matter. Gain on Sale of EBS. The gain on sale of EBS represents a gain of $352,297, recognized in connection with the sale of a 52% interest in EBS, for cash proceeds of approximately $1,209,000. See Introduction Significant Transactions Completed During 2006. Loss (Gain) on Investments. No gains or losses on investments were incurred during 2006. The loss on investments during 2005 was primarily related to a loss of $4,251 on marketable securities that we identified as securities to be liquidated in connection with the redemption of our 31/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2007 (which we refer to as 31/4% Notes), as well as a loss of $2,723 related to the sale of marketable securities, the proceeds of which were used to purchase Emdeon Common Stock under the tender offer we completed on December 21, 2005 (which we refer to as 2005 Tender Offer). Interest Income. Interest income increased to $32,339 in 2006, from $21,527 in 2005. The increase was mainly due to higher rates of return in 2006, compared to 2005. Also contributing to the increase in interest income were higher investment balances, particularly during the fourth quarter of 2006, as a result of the proceeds received in connection with the EPS Sale on September 14, 2006 and the EBS Sale on November 16, 2006, partially offset by the $1.55 billion used in connection with the 2006 Tender Offer that was completed on December 4, 2006. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $18,779 in 2006, from $16,322 in 2005, primarily due to higher weighted average debt outstanding during 2006, compared to 2005. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net was $1,674 and $3,765 in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Other expense, net in 2006 includes advisory expenses of $4,198 for professional fees, primarily consisting of legal, accounting and financial advisory services related to our exploration of strategic alternatives for our EBS business, from the time we initiated this exploration, through the date we signed the definitive agreement for the EBS Sale on September 26, 2006. Also included in other expense, net was transition services income of $2,524 earned from the service fee charged to EBSCo and Sage Software for services rendered under each of their respective transition services agreement. Other expense, net for 2005 of $3,765 represents a charge of $1,863 related to the settlement of litigation in 2005 and a loss of $1,902 related to the redemption of the 31/4% Notes on June 2, 2005. 83 Table of Contents Income Tax Provision (Benefit). The income tax provision of $56,193 and benefit of $1,001 in 2006 and 2005, respectively, includes tax expense for operations that are profitable in certain states and foreign countries in which we do not have net operating losses to offset that income. In addition, the income tax provision (benefit) includes a non cash provision for taxes of $30,770 and $174 in 2006 and 2005, respectively, that has not been reduced by the reversal of the valuation allowance as these tax benefits were acquired through business combinations and therefore the related valuation allowance was reversed through goodwill. The income tax provision in 2006 was considerably higher than in prior periods, as a result of the gain we recorded in connection with the EBS Sale. In 2005, the tax expense was offset by the reversal of reserves for tax contingencies resulting from the completion of an IRS Joint Committee review and, to a lesser extent, the expiration of various statutes. Minority Interest in WHC. Minority interest of $706 and $908 in 2006 and 2005, respectively, represents the minority stockholders proportionate share of income for the consolidated WebMD segment. The ownership interest of minority shareholders was created as part of our initial public offering of the WebMD segment on September 28, 2005 and fluctuates based on the net income or loss reported by WHC, combined with changes in the percentage ownership of WHC held by the minority interest shareholders. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax represents EPSs net operating results of $17,902 during the period from January 1, 2006 through the date of sale on September 14, 2006 and $16,265 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as well as a gain of $353,158, net of tax, recognized in 2006 in connection with the completed EPS Sale. 2005 and 2004 The following discussion is a comparison of the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, to the year ended December 31, 2004. Revenue Our total revenue increased 11.8% to $1,026,475 in 2005 from $918,097 in 2004. The ViPS, WebMD, EBS and Porex segments accounted for $65,620, $33,921, $7,205 and $2,025, respectively, of the revenue increase. Revenue from customers acquired through the 2005 Acquisitions and 2004 Acquisitions contributed $69,689 to the overall increase in revenue for 2005, of which $52,231 related to the ViPS acquisition in August 2004. Excluding revenue from the 2005 Acquisitions and 2004 Acquisitions, the remaining increase in revenue was primarily related to increased revenue in the WebMD segment from advertising and sponsorship revenue related to WebMDs public portals and licensing revenue from WebMDs private online portals. In addition, revenue increased in the EBS segment as a result of increased sales of our paid claims communication services and our patient statement services. Also contributing to our revenue growth, were increased sales of our consulting services for governmental agency customers in the ViPS segment. Partially offsetting these increases in revenue was lower revenue for traditional medical services in EBS. Costs and Expenses Cost of Operations. Cost of operations was $595,654 in 2005, compared to $536,289 in 2004. Our cost of operations represented 58.0% of revenue in 2005, compared to 58.4% of revenue in 2004. Favorably impacting cost of operations as a percentage of revenue for 2005, as compared to 2004, was lower sales commissions paid to our channel partners and lower data communication expenses in EBS. Partially offsetting these lower costs were increased compensation related costs in the WebMD segment due to increased headcount for information technology relating to WebMDs Web site operations. Additionally, product mix impacted cost of operations as a percentage of revenue as the loss of $11,000 of News Corporation content syndication revenues, which had no corresponding incremental expenses, were replaced with revenues that have higher cost of operations, such as our ViPS government consulting services and WebMD the Magazine. Included in cost of operations were non cash expenses related to advertising services of $336 and $901 for 2005 and 2004, respectively. 84 Table of Contents Development and Engineering. Development and engineering expense was $35,653 in 2005, compared to $33,141 in 2004. Our development and engineering expense represented 3.5% of revenue in 2005, compared to 3.6% of revenue in 2004. The primary increase in development and engineering expense, in absolute dollars, was related to the development and engineering expense of the ViPS, HealthShare and MedicineNet product lines which, due to timing of these acquisitions, were partially included or not included in our results during 2004. Sales, Marketing, General and Administrative. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense was $254,887 in 2005, compared to $244,516 in 2004. Our sales, marketing, general and administrative expense represented 24.9% of revenue in 2005, compared to 26.6% of revenue in 2004. Included in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense were non cash expenses related to advertising services, distribution services and stock based compensation. Non cash expenses related to advertising and distribution services were $10,534 in 2005, compared to $17,925 in 2004. The decrease in non cash advertising and distribution expense for 2005 was due to lower utilization of our prepaid advertising inventory, as well as a decline in the expense related to our distribution agreement with AOL, which became fully amortized in May 2004. Non cash stock based compensation was $4,880 in 2005, compared to $7,860 in 2004. The decrease in non cash stock based compensation was primarily related to the vesting schedules of options issued and assumed in connection with business combinations and the restricted stock issued to certain employees in 2004. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense excluding the non cash expenses discussed above, was $239,473, or 23.3% of revenue in 2005, compared to $218,731, or 23.8% of revenue in 2004. The increase in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense, excluding the non cash expenses discussed above, in absolute dollars was primarily due to increases in compensation related costs related to increased staffing and sales commissions associated with the growth of our revenue, as well as higher general and administrative expense related to recent acquisitions we have made. Additionally, sales, marketing, general and administrative expenses during 2005 include severance and other expenses associated with the resignation or termination of several executive positions, and recruiting costs related to new executive positions, principally within the WebMD segment. Offsetting these increased expenses during 2005 was the reduction of professional service costs related to our implementation efforts with respect to the HIPAA Transaction Standards, which were substantially completed during the fourth quarter of 2004. Although our sales, marketing, general and administrative expense has increased in absolute dollars during 2005, the decrease in this expense as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to our ability to achieve an increase in revenue without incurring a proportionate increase in expenses, with the exception of certain increased staffing and additional sales commissions, which were directly attributable to the increased revenue. Additionally, the full year inclusion of the ViPS operations in 2005, contributed to the decrease in sales, marketing, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue, as the ViPS operations have lower administrative expenses than some of our other operations. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense was $60,905 in 2005, compared to $48,707 in 2004, which represented 5.9% and 5.3% of revenue in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase was primarily due to approximately $12,000 of additional amortization expense relating to the 2005 Acquisitions and 2004 Acquisitions. Additionally, depreciation expense increased during 2005, compared to 2004, as a result of increased capital expenditures made throughout our company during 2005 and the later part of 2004. These increases were slightly offset by a decrease of approximately $3,100 in amortization expense as a result of the intangible asset for Medifaxs trade name becoming fully amortized in December 2004. Legal Expense. Legal expense was $17,835 in 2005, compared to $9,230 in 2004. Legal expense represents the external costs and expenses incurred related to the investigation by the United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina and the SEC. While we cannot predict these costs and expenses with certainty and while they may continue to be significant, we expect these costs to continue to be lower in 2007, as compared to 2005, in part because existing insurance policies became available in December 2005 to cover the expenses of certain former officers and employees. In connection with the EPS Sale, we have agreed to indemnify Sage Software with respect to this matter. 85 Table of Contents Loss (Gain) on Investments. Loss (gain) on investments represented a loss of $6,365 for 2005 and a gain of $457 for 2004. The loss on investments during 2005 was primarily related to a loss of $4,251 on marketable securities that we identified as securities to be liquidated in connection with the redemption of our 31/4% Notes. Also during 2005, we recognized a loss of $2,723 related to the sale of marketable securities, the proceeds of which were used to purchase Emdeon Common Stock under the 2005 Tender Offer. Interest Income. Interest income increased to $21,527 in 2005, from $18,716 in 2004. This increase was mainly due to higher rates of return in 2005, compared to 2004. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased to $16,322 in 2005, from $19,251 in 2004, primarily due to lower weighted average debt outstanding during 2005, compared to 2004. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net for 2005 and 2004 was $3,765 and $4,535, respectively. Other expense, net in 2005 represents a charge of $1,863 related to the settlement of litigation in 2005 and a loss of $1,902 related to the redemption of the 31/4% Notes on June 2, 2005. Other expense, net in 2004 of $4,535 represents an incremental charge taken in connection with the settlement of a lawsuit against the landlord of a property leased in 2000, but never occupied. The remaining cost of the settlement was previously expensed in connection with the restructuring and integration plan that we announced in September 2000. Income Tax Provision (Benefit). The income tax benefit of $1,001 and provision of $4,223 in 2005 and 2004, respectively, primarily consist of tax expense for operations that are profitable in certain states and foreign countries in which we do not have net operating losses to offset that income. In 2005, this tax expense was offset by the reversal of reserves for tax contingencies resulting from the completion of an IRS Joint Committee review and, to a lesser extent, the expiration of various statutes. The 2005 income tax benefit also includes a provision for federal taxes that has not been reduced by the reversal of valuation allowance as these tax benefits were acquired through business combinations. Minority Interest in WHC. Minority interest was $908 in 2005 and represents the minority stockholders proportionate share of income for the consolidated WebMD segment. The ownership interest of minority shareholders was created as part of our initial public offering of the WebMD segment on September 28, 2005 and fluctuates based on the net income or loss reported by WHC, combined with changes in the percentage ownership of WHC held by the minority interest shareholders. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. Income from discontinued operations represents EPSs net operating results of $16,265 and $1,956 in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in EPSs operating results was due to increased revenue, as well as changes in the types of revenue we received, which can have varying degrees of profitability. Also contributing to the increase in EPSs operating results were improvements in EPSs delivery and customer service infrastructure. Results of Operations by Operating Segment We evaluate the performance of the business based upon earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items. Non cash and other items include: legal expenses which reflect costs and expenses related to the investigation by the United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina and the SEC (which we refer to as Legal expense); professional fees, primarily consisting of legal, accounting and financial advisory services, related to the EBS Sale; a gain on sale of a 52% interest in our EBS segment (which we refer to as Gain on sale of EBS), equity in earnings of EBSCo, which represents Emdeons 48% portion of EBSs income (which we refer to as Equity in earnings of EBS Master LLC); charge related to the redemption of the 31/4% Notes; minority interest in our consolidated WebMD segment; non cash advertising expense related to advertising acquired in exchange for our equity securities; costs and expenses related to the settlement of litigation in 2005; and non cash stock based compensation expense, which relates to stock options issued and assumed in connection with acquisitions and restricted stock issued to employees and, beginning January 1, 2006, includes the incremental non cash stock based compensation expense associated with the adoption of SFAS 123R. Reclassification of Segment Information. In connection with the EPS Sale and related reclassification of that operating segment to discontinued operations, we have reclassified certain expenses related to activities that were previously managed, and therefore reported, within the Corporate and EBS segments, to the 86 Table of Contents discontinued EPS segment, as these expenses will not be incurred by our continuing operations, and therefore these expenses were reclassified for the current and comparable periods. The expenses which were reclassified to the discontinued EPS segment aggregated $924, $1,750 and $1,837 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Summarized financial information for each of our operating segments and corporate segment and a reconciliation to net income are presented below (amounts in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2006(a) 2005 2004 Revenue Emdeon Business Services $ 661,090 $ 689,305 $ 682,100 WebMD 253,881 168,238 134,317 ViPS 98,874 90,313 24,693 Porex 85,702 79,124 77,099 Inter segment eliminations (939 ) (505 ) (112 ) $ 1,098,608 $ 1,026,475 $ 918,097 Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items Emdeon Business Services $ 152,911 $ 138,529 $ 128,361 WebMD 53,079 27,546 26,307 ViPS 20,529 16,913 4,277 Porex 24,974 22,524 22,650 Corporate (43,414 ) (49,481 ) (50,758 ) 208,079 156,031 130,837 Interest, taxes, non cash and other items Depreciation and amortization (61,976 ) (60,905 ) (48,707 ) Non cash stock based compensation (44,955 ) (4,880 ) (7,860 ) Non cash advertising and distribution (7,414 ) (10,870 ) (18,826 ) Legal expense (2,578 ) (17,835 ) (9,230 ) Interest income 32,339 21,527 18,716 Interest expense (18,779 ) (16,322 ) (19,251 ) Income tax (provision) benefit (56,193 ) 1,001 (4,223 ) Minority interest in WHC (706 ) (908 ) Equity in earnings of EBS Master LLC 763 Gain on sale of EBS 352,297 (Loss) gain on investments (6,365 ) 457 Other expense (4,198 ) (3,765 ) (4,535 ) Income from continuing operations 396,679 56,709 37,378 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 371,060 16,265 1,956 Net income $ 767,739 $ 72,974 $ 39,334 (a) The EBS segment was sold on November 16, 2006 and, therefore, the operations of the EBS segment are included only for the period January 1, 2006 through November 16, 2006. 87 Table of Contents 2006 and 2005 The following discussion is a comparison of the results of operations for each of our operating segments and corporate segment for the year ended December 31, 2006, to the year ended December 31, 2005. Emdeon Business Services. Revenue was $661,090 in 2006, a decrease of $28,215 or 4.1% from 2005. The decrease in revenue was due to the impact of the EBS Exclusion Period. Offsetting the decrease in revenue was growth in our electronic transactions, patient statements and remittance and payment services and an increase in postage revenue which corresponded with the increase in postage rates that went into effect on January 8, 2006. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $152,911 in 2006, compared to $138,529 in 2005. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 23.1% in 2006, compared to 20.1% in 2005. The increase in operating margin, as a percentage of revenue, was primarily the result of higher revenue as discussed above, without a proportionate increase in costs. This was due to a combination of certain costs that are more fixed in nature and do not increase proportionately with revenue including certain personnel related costs, as well as the result of operating efficiencies and cost savings. The operating efficiencies and costs savings included lower direct expenses in the areas of telecommunication expenses and other direct material costs related to our patient statement and remittance and payment service offerings. The increase in operating margin was slightly offset by the impact of the increased postage rates which went into effect at the beginning of the current year. WebMD. Revenue was $253,881 in 2006, an increase of $85,643 or 50.9% from 2005. The increase in revenue was the result of increased advertising and sponsorship revenue related to our public portals and licensing revenue from our private online portals. Excluding the impact of the 2006 Acquisitions and 2005 Acquisitions on revenue, total revenue increased approximately $55,000, or 32%, from 2005 to 2006. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $53,079 in 2006, compared to $27,546 in 2005. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 20.9% in 2006, compared to 16.4% in 2005. This increase in operating margin was primarily due to the higher revenue from the increase in number of brands and sponsored programs in our public portals, as well as the increase in companies using our private online portal without incurring a proportionate increase in overall expenses. This increase was partially offset by a charge of approximately $3,100 during 2005 related to the resignation of WebMDs former CEO and other personnel and recruitment of WebMDs Executive Vice President of Product and Programming and Chief Technology Officer. ViPS. Revenue was $98,874 in 2006, an increase of $8,561 or 9.5% from 2005. The increase for 2006 compared to a year ago was due to increased professional consulting services that we provide to governmental agencies, and license revenue and related support and maintenance revenue related to data warehousing and decision support software. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $20,529 in 2006, compared to $16,913 in 2005. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 20.8% in 2006, compared to 18.7% in 2005. The increase in operating margin for 2006, as compared to 2005, was primarily due to the changes in the type of revenue we earned (which can have varying degrees of profitability), such as the higher software revenue we earned in the current year periods, which have higher margins than certain types of consulting services, including the consulting services we provide to governmental agencies. The increase was slightly offset by higher facility and personnel cost to support the growth within our ViPS segment. Porex. Revenue was $85,702 in 2006, an increase of $6,578 or 8.3% from 2005. The increase in revenue for 2006, was primarily due to increased sales of our foreign industrial products, healthcare and consumer products. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $24,974 in 2006, compared to $22,524 in 2005. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 29.1% in 2006, compared to 28.5% in 2005. The increase in operating margin was primarily due to the higher revenue, 88 Table of Contents as discussed above, offset by higher personnel costs and higher direct costs relating to the mix of products produced. Corporate. Corporate includes services shared across all operating segments, such as executive personnel, accounting, tax, treasury, legal, human resources, risk management and certain information technology functions. Corporate expenses decreased to $43,414, or 4.0% of consolidated revenue in 2006, compared to $49,481, or 4.8% of consolidated revenue in 2005. These expenses, in absolute dollars, decreased as a result of lower personnel related costs due to lower headcount. Additionally, our corporate expenses as a percentage of revenue continue to decrease when compared to the prior periods reflecting our ability to increase revenue without a proportionate increase in corporate costs which are generally more fixed in nature. Additionally, in connection with the transition services we are providing to EPS and EBSCo following the EPS Sale and EBS Sale, we charged EPS and EBSCo transition services fees of $2,524 during 2006, which is net of certain fees we pay to EBSCo, related to certain services they perform for us. This amount was reflected within our Corporate segment during 2006, partially offsetting the cost of providing these services. Inter Segment Eliminations. Inter segment eliminations primarily represents printing services provided by the EBS segment and certain services provided by the WebMD segment to our other operating segments. 2005 and 2004 The following discussion is a comparison of the results of operations for each of our operating segments and corporate segment for the year ended December 31, 2005, to the year ended December 31, 2004. Emdeon Business Services. Revenue was $689,305 in 2005, an increase of $7,205 or 1.1% from 2004. Revenue from customers acquired through the 2004 Acquisitions contributed $5,578 to the increase in revenue. Excluding revenue from customers acquired through the 2004 Acquisitions, revenue increased as a result of growth in our paid claims communication services, offset by a decrease in revenue for traditional medical services. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $138,529 in 2005, compared to $128,361 in 2004. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 20.1% in 2005, compared to 18.8% in 2004. The increase in our operating margin, as a percentage of revenue, was primarily the result of lower sales commissions paid to our channel partners including practice management and hospital information system vendors, lower data communication expenses and lower professional service costs related to our implementation efforts with respect to the HIPAA transaction standards, which were substantially completed in the fourth quarter of 2004. WebMD. Revenue was $168,238 in 2005, an increase of $33,921 or 25.3% from 2004. The increase in revenue was the result of increased advertising and sponsorship revenue related to our public portals and licensing revenue from our private online portals. Also contributing to the increase in revenue for 2005 was $7,661 and $933 related to the acquisitions of HealthShare and Concepts, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases was the loss of revenue from our content syndication agreement with News Corporation, which expired in January 2005. Included in revenue was $1,000 for 2005, compared to revenue of $12,000 for 2004, related to the News Corporation agreement. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $27,546 in 2005, compared to $26,307 in 2004. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 16.4% in 2005, compared to 19.6% in 2004. This decrease in operating margin as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to a charge of approximately $3,100 during 2005 related to the resignation of WebMDs former CEO and other personnel and the recruitment of WebMDs Executive Vice President of Product and Programming and Chief Technology Officer. Additionally, WebMD incurred higher information technology and sales and marketing expenses, as well as the decline in revenue due to the expiration of the content syndication agreement with News Corporation referred to above, which had no corresponding incremental expenses. ViPS. Revenue was $90,313 in 2005, an increase of $65,620 from 2004. ViPS was purchased on August 11, 2004 and, as such, $52,231 of the increase in revenue represents revenue from customers acquired. 89 Table of Contents The remaining increase in revenue of $13,389 represents additional consulting services provided to our governmental agency customers. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $16,913 in 2005, compared to $4,277 in 2004. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 18.7% in 2005, compared to 17.3% in 2004. The increase in operating margin was due to the higher revenue discussed above without the proportionate increase in cost. Porex. Revenue was $79,124 in 2005, an increase of $2,025 or 2.6% from 2004. Revenue from customers acquired through the 2004 Acquisitions contributed $1,162 to the increase in revenue in 2005. Excluding the 2004 Acquisitions, the increase for 2005 compared to a year ago was the result of increased sales of surgical implant products, writing instrument components and industrial products offset partially by a decrease in sales of consumer and healthcare products. Earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was $22,524 in 2005, compared to $22,650 in 2004. As a percentage of revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, non cash and other items was 28.5% in 2005, compared to 29.4% in 2004. The decrease in operating margin as a percentage of revenue was due to changes in the types of products sold in 2005 (which can have varying degrees of profitability), as well as higher personnel and professional costs. Corporate. Corporate includes services shared across all operating segments, such as executive personnel, accounting, tax, treasury, legal, human resources, risk management and certain information technology functions. Corporate expenses decreased to $49,481, or 4.8% of consolidated revenue, in 2005, compared to $50,758, or 5.5% of consolidated revenue, in 2004. These expenses, in absolute dollars, decreased as a result of lower personnel related costs due to lower headcount and lower professional costs related to our efforts related to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Additionally, our corporate expenses as a percentage of revenue continue to decrease when compared to the prior periods reflecting our ability to increase revenue without a proportionate increase in corporate costs. Inter Segment Eliminations. Inter segment eliminations primarily represents printing services provided by the EBS segment and certain services provided by the WebMD segment to our other operating segments. Liquidity and Capital Resources We began operations in January 1996 and, until 2004, we had incurred net losses in each year and, as of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $9.3 billion. We plan to continue to invest in acquisitions, strategic relationships, infrastructure and product development. We do not expect to pay dividends to our stockholders. Cash Flow As of December 31 2006, we had approximately $648,831 in cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, including $54,150 in cash and cash equivalents and short term investments held by WHC. We invest our excess cash principally in U.S. Treasury obligations, money market funds and other short term liquid cash investments and expect to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2006, all our marketable securities were classified as available for sale. In February 2007, we transferred $140,000 to WHC as an estimate of the payment required in accordance with the tax sharing agreement between Emdeon and WHC, which requires Emdeon to reimburse WHC for WHCs net operating losses utilized in connection with the gains Emdeon realized in 2006 on the EPS Sale and EBS Sale transactions. The transfer of the $140,000 had no impact on our consolidated cash position or liquidity. Cash provided by operating activities from our continuing operations was $173,035 in 2006, compared to $128,856 in 2005. The principal source of the $44,179 increase in cash provided by operating activities from our continuing operations when compared to a year ago, was higher income from continuing operations, excluding the gain we realized on the EBS Sale and non cash items such as depreciation, amortization and stock compensation expenses. Changes in consolidated working capital between 2006 and 2005 had a negligible impact on our cash flow from operations. 90 Table of Contents Cash provided by investing activities from our continuing operations was $1,764,551 in 2006, compared to $183,507 in 2005. Cash provided by investing activities from our continuing operations in 2006 was primarily attributable to $1,199,872 and $522,604 of proceeds received from the EBS Sale and EPS Sale, respectively, as well as $241,469 of net proceeds from maturities and sales of available for sale securities. Cash paid in business combinations, net of cash acquired, was $152,772 in 2006, which primarily related to the acquisitions of Subimo, Medsite, Summex and eMedicine, as well as contingent consideration payments related to our acquisitions of Advanced Business Fulfillment, Inc. (which we refer to as ABF) and MedicineNet. Cash provided by investing activities from our continuing operations in 2005 included net proceeds of $304,919 from maturities and sales of available for sale securities. Cash paid in business combinations, net of cash acquired, was $93,712 in 2005, which primarily related to the ABF contingent consideration payment and the acquisitions of HealthShare and MedicineNet. Investments in property and equipment were $54,885 in 2006, compared to $51,276 in 2005. We anticipate capital expenditure requirements of approximately $23,000 to $28,000 in 2007, primarily within our WebMD segment. Cash used in financing activities was $1,479,646 in 2006, compared to cash used in financing activities of $196,049 in 2005. Cash used in financing activities in 2006 principally related to the repurchases of a total of 137.5 million shares of Emdeon Common Stock for $1,635,287, offset by proceeds from the issuance of Emdeon Common Stock and WHC Class A Common Stock, primarily resulting from exercises of employee stock options, of $156,078. Cash used in financing activities in 2005 principally related to the repurchase of 69.4 million shares of Emdeon Common Stock for $570,514 and the redemption of our 31/4% Notes for $86,694. These uses of cash were offset by net proceeds of $289,875 from the issuance of our 31/8% Convertible Notes due 2025 (which we refer to as 31/8% Notes) in August 2005, $123,344 in net proceeds from the issuance of WHC Class A Common Stock in an initial public offering and proceeds of $48,571 related to the issuance of Emdeon Common Stock, primarily resulting from exercises of employee stock options. Included in our consolidated statements of cash flows are cash flows from discontinued operations of the EPS segment as a result of the EPS Sale. Our cash flows from discontinued operations are comprised of cash flows provided by operating activities, representing $25,985, $32,430 and $29,991, and cash flows used in investing activities, representing $26,010, $34,575 and $28,536, for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There were no cash flows from financing activities for the EPS segment. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our principal commitments as of December 31, 2006 for future specified contractual obligations that are not reflected in our consolidated balance sheets, as well as the estimated timing of the cash payments associated with these obligations. This table also provides the timing of cash payments related to our long term debt obligations included in our consolidated balance sheets. Managements estimates of the timing of future cash flows are largely based on historical experience, and accordingly, actual timing of cash flows may vary from these estimates. Less Than More Than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Long term debt(a) $ 727,688 $ 15,500 $ 31,000 $ 371,813 $ 309,375 Leases(b) 60,870 11,580 19,311 14,782 15,197 Purchase obligations(c) 4,047 4,047 Other long term liabilities 730 289 441 Total $ 793,335 $ 31,416 $ 50,752 $ 386,595 $ 324,572 (a) Long term debt includes our 31/8% Notes, and our 1.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2023, which are first puttable at the option of the holders in 2012 and 2010, respectively. Amounts include our contractual interest payments through the earliest date at which these notes are puttable by the holder. (b) The lease amounts are net of sublease income. 91 Table of Contents (c) Purchase obligations include amounts committed under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders for goods and services with defined terms as to price, quantity and delivery. In addition to the commitments discussed above, we have contingent consideration payments of up to $37,500 related to prior acquisitions we have made if certain milestones are achieved for those businesses. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no material off balance sheet arrangements. Outlook on Future Liquidity We expect our operating cash flows to be lower during 2007, as compared to 2006 as a result of the absence of cash flows generated by the EPS segment. In addition to the EPS Sale, we expect the EBS Sale to result in lower operating cash flows for 2007, as compared to 2006. While we still own a 48% interest in EBS through our investment in EBSCo, the profitability of EBSCo will be reduced as a result of the interest expense related to the $925,000 in debt that EBSCo incurred in connection with the EBS Sale. Further, as a result of a credit agreement between EBSCo and the financial institutions that issued the debt, payment of any cash distributions out of EBSCo will be restricted to certain tax related distributions, which are expected to be minimal, if any, in 2007. Even though we have sold or partially sold two of our significant businesses, we expect our 2007 operating cash flows to be positive by experiencing continued positive operating cash flows in our WebMD, ViPS and Porex segments and by lowering our operating expenses within the Corporate segment. We believe that, for the foreseeable future, we will have sufficient cash resources to meet the commitments described above and our current anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements, including the capital requirements related to the roll out of new or updated products in 2007 and 2008. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including retention of customers at current volume and revenue levels, our existing and new application and service offerings, competing technological and market developments, cost of maintaining and upgrading the information technology platforms and communications systems that WebMD uses to provide its services, potential future acquisitions and additional repurchases of Emdeon Common Stock. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced applications and services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If required, we may raise such additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such financing will not be dilutive to our stockholders. Future indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to provide for unanticipated capital investments or to take advantage of business opportunities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On February 15, 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (which we refer to as SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits many financial instruments and certain other items to be measured at fair value at our option. Most of the provisions in SFAS 159 are elective; however, the amendment to SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, applies to all entities with available for sale and trading securities. The fair value option established by SFAS 159 permits the choice to measure eligible items at fair value at specified election dates. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected will be reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. The fair value option: (a) may be applied instrument by instrument, with a few exceptions, such as investments otherwise accounted for by the equity method; (b) is irrevocable (unless a new election date occurs); and (c) is applied only to entire instruments and not to portions of instruments. SFAS 159 is effective for financial statements issued for first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. Early adoption is permitted provided that the choice is made in the first 120 days of that fiscal year and SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements is also adopted. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that this new standard will have on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 92 Table of Contents In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (which we refer to as SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure of fair value measurements. SFAS 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements and, accordingly, does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that this new standard will have on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, (which we refer to as FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. It also provides guidance on derecognizing, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that this new standard will have on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and maintain adequate liquidity, while at the same time maximizing the yield we receive from our investment portfolio without significantly increasing risk. This objective is accomplished by adherence to our investment policy, which establishes the list of eligible types of securities and credit requirements for each investment. Changes in prevailing interest rates will cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. To minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents, short term investments and marketable securities in commercial paper, non governmental debt securities, money market funds and highly liquid United States Treasury notes. Principal amounts expected to mature during 2007 are $33.9 million. The 31/8% Notes and the 1.75% Notes that we have issued have fixed interest rates; changes in interest rates will not impact our financial condition or results of operations. We have not utilized derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. Exchange Rate Sensitivity Currently, substantially all of our sales and expenses are denominated in United States dollars; however, Porex is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the rate of exchange of the United States dollar against the Euro. This exposure arises primarily as a result of translating the results of Porexs foreign operations to the United States dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the accounting period. Porex has not engaged in foreign currency hedging activities to date. Foreign currency translation gains (losses) were $3.6 million, $(3.3) million and $2.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We believe that future exchange rate sensitivity related to Porex will not have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 
</SECTION>
