<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: Berry Petroleum Company, LLC
CIK: 0000778438
SIC: 1311
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20151231
FILE DATE: 20160328
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for details about the Companys going concern uncertainty.Financing ActivitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Credit Facility). The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion, including $250 million posted as restricted cash (discussed below). The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million, including the $250 million of restricted cash. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.See Note 3 for additional details about the Companys debt.2Table of ContentsItem 1.Business ContinuedCommodity DerivativesDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company entered into commodity derivative contracts consisting of natural gas basis swaps for May 2015 through December 2016 to hedge exposure to differentials in certain producing areas and oil swaps for April 2015 through December 2015. In addition, the Company entered into natural gas basis swaps for May 2015 through December 2016 to hedge exposure to the differential in California, where it consumes natural gas in its heavy oil development operations.PropertiesThe Company currently has five operating areas in the U.S.: California, Hugoton Basin, Uinta Basin, Piceance Basin and East Texas.CaliforniaThe Companys California operating area consists of properties located in the Midway Sunset, McKittrick, Poso Creek and South Belridge fields in the San Joaquin Valley Basin as well as the Placerita Field in the Los Angeles Basin. The properties in this operating area produce using thermal enhanced oil recovery methods at depths ranging from 800 feet to 2,000 feet. California proved reserves represented approximately 50% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2015, all of which were classified as proved developed. This operating area produced 25.8 MBOE/d or 53% of the Companys 2015 average daily production.Hugoton BasinThe Companys Hugoton Basin properties are located in southwest Kansas and the Oklahoma Panhandle and primarily produce from the Council Grove and Chase formations at depths ranging from 2,200 feet to 3,100 feet. Hugoton Basin proved reserves represented approximately 38% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2015, all of which were classified as proved developed. This operating area produced 9.9 MBOE/d or 21% of the Companys 2015 average daily production.Uinta BasinThe Companys Uinta Basin properties target the Green River and Wasatch formations that produce both oil and natural gas at depths ranging from 5,000 feet to 7,500 feet. To more efficiently transport its natural gas in the Uinta Basin to market, the Company owns and operates a network of natural gas gathering systems comprised of approximately 750 miles of pipeline and associated compression and metering facilities that connect to numerous sales outlets in the area. The Company also owns the Brundage Canyon natural gas processing plant with capacity of approximately 30 MMcf/d. Uinta Basin proved reserves represented approximately 7% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2015, all of which were classified as proved developed. This operating area produced 8.0 MBOE/d or 17% of the Companys 2015 average daily production.Piceance BasinThe Companys Piceance Basin properties target the Williams Fork section of the Mesaverde formation and produce at depths ranging from 7,500 feet to 9,500 feet. Piceance Basin proved reserves represented approximately 3% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2015, all of which were classified as proved developed. This operating area produced 3.1 MBOE/d or 6% of the Companys 2015 average daily production.East TexasThe Companys East Texas properties primarily produce natural gas from the Cotton Valley and Travis Peak formations at depths ranging from 7,000 feet to 11,500 feet. Proved reserves for these mature, low decline producing properties represented approximately 2% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2015, all of which were classified as proved developed. This operating area produced 1.6 MBOE/d or 3% of the Companys 2015 average daily production.3Table of ContentsItem 1.Business ContinuedDrilling and AcreageThe following table sets forth the wells drilled during the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Gross wells: Productive196 411 340Dry 196 411 340Net development wells: Productive163 407 311Dry 163 407 311Net exploratory wells: Productive Dry As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 2 gross (1 net) wells in progress (no wells were temporarily suspended).This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the quantities or economic value of reserves found. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of oil, natural gas or NGL, regardless of whether they generate a reasonable rate of return.Productive WellsThe following table sets forth information relating to the productive wells in which the Company owned a working interest as of December 31, 2015. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells awaiting pipeline or other connections to commence deliveries. Oil Wells Natural Gas Wells Total Wells Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Operated3,261 2,900 2,649 2,054 5,910 4,954Nonoperated17 4 198 31 215 35 3,278 2,904 2,847 2,085 6,125 4,989 Developed and Undeveloped AcreageThe following table sets forth information relating to leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2015: Developed Acreage Undeveloped Acreage Total Acreage Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net (in thousands)Leasehold acreage583 529 142 91 725 6204Table of ContentsItem 1.Business ContinuedFuture Acreage ExpirationsIf production is not established or the Company takes no other action to extend the terms of the related leases, undeveloped acreage will expire over the next three years as follows: 2016 2017 2018 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net (in thousands)Leasehold acreage13 7 6 3 3 3The Companys investment in developed and undeveloped acreage comprises numerous leases. The terms and conditions under which the Company maintains exploration or production rights to the acreage are property specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Company may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Company has generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The Company utilizes various methods to manage the expiration of leases, including drilling the acreage prior to lease expiration or extending lease terms. The Company currently has no plans to develop or extend the lease terms on any of the acreage related to leases that are due to expire in 2016.Reserve DataProved ReservesThe following table sets forth estimated proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at December 31, 2015, based on reserve reports prepared by independent engineers, DeGolyer and MacNaughton: Estimated proved developed reserves: Oil (MMBbls)94NGL (MMBbls)17Natural gas (Bcf)388Total (MMBOE)175 Estimated proved undeveloped reserves: Oil (MMBbls)NGL (MMBbls)Natural gas (Bcf)Total (MMBOE) Estimated total proved reserves: Oil (MMBbls)94NGL (MMBbls)17Natural gas (Bcf)388Total (MMBOE)175 Proved developed reserves as a percentage of total proved reserves100%Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows (in millions) (1)$995 5Table of ContentsItem 1.Business ContinuedRepresentative NYMEX prices: (2) Oil (Bbl)$50.16Natural gas (MMBtu)$2.59(1) This measure is not intended to represent the market value of estimated reserves.(2) In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, reserves were estimated using the average price during the 12 month period, determined as an unweighted average of the first day of the month price for each month, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. The average price used to estimate reserves is held constant over the life of the reserves.During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) decreased to zero from 68 MMBOE at December 31, 2014. The decrease was due to 64 MMBOE of negative revisions (36 MMBOE due to lower commodity prices, 15 MMBOE due to uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, 11 MMBOE due to the SEC five year development limitation on PUDs and 2 MMBOE due to asset performance) and 4 MMBOE of PUDs developed during 2015. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company incurred approximately $68 million in capital expenditures to convert the 4 MMBOE of reserves that were classified as PUDs at December 31, 2014, to proved developed reserves.As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its PUDs to unproved as of December 31, 2015. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for details regarding the Companys going concern uncertainty.Reserve engineering is inherently a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGL that cannot be measured exactly. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Accordingly, reserve estimates may vary from the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that are ultimately recovered. Future prices received for production may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices assumed for the purposes of estimating the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows should not be construed as the market value of the reserves at the dates shown. The 10% discount factor required to be used under the provisions of applicable accounting standards may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and natural gas industry. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is materially affected by assumptions regarding the timing of future production, which may prove to be inaccurate.The reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by independent engineers, DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. When preparing the reserve estimates, the independent engineering firm did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of the information and data furnished by the Company with respect to ownership interests, production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of their work, something came to their attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, they did not rely on such information or data until they had satisfactorily resolved their questions relating thereto. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years. The independent engineering firm also prepared estimates with respect to reserve categorization, using the definitions of proved reserves set forth in Regulation S X Rule 4 10(a) and subsequent SEC staff interpretations and guidance.The Companys internal control over the preparation of reserve estimates is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the Companys reserve estimates in accordance with SEC regulations. The preparation of reserve estimates was overseen by LINN Energys Corporate Reserves Manager, who has Master of Petroleum Engineering and Master of Business Administration degrees and more than 30 years of oil and natural gas industry experience. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other items within this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In some cases, forward looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, should, expect, plan, project, intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, pursue, target, continue, the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology.The forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are largely based on Company expectations, which reflect estimates and assumptions made by Company management. These estimates and assumptions reflect managements best judgment based on currently known market conditions and other factors. Although the Company believes such estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently uncertain and involve a number of risks and uncertainties beyond its control. In addition, managements assumptions may prove to be inaccurate. The Company cautions that the forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are not guarantees of future performance, and it cannot assure any reader that such statements will be realized or the events will occur. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated or implied in forward looking statements due to factors set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The forward looking statements speak only as of the date made and, other than as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Item 1A.Risk FactorsOur business has many risks. Factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity are described below. This information should be considered carefully, together with other information in this report and other reports and materials we file with the SEC.If we are unable to repay or refinance our existing and future debt as it becomes due, whether at maturity or as a result of acceleration, we may be unable to continue as a going concern.We have significant indebtedness under our November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes (collectively, Notes) and our Credit Facility. As of February 29, 2016, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $1.7 billion outstanding under our Notes and our Credit Facility (with additional borrowing capacity of less than $1 million). As a result of our indebtedness, we use a significant portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal (when due) on our Notes and Credit Facility, which reduces the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and limits our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.Based on our current estimates and expectations for commodity prices in 2016, we do not expect to remain in compliance with all of the restrictive covenants contained in our Credit Facility throughout 2016 unless those requirements are waived or amended. Additionally, the borrowing base under our Credit Facility is subject to redetermination in April 2016. Because the Credit Facility is effectively fully drawn, any reduction in the borrowing base would require us to make mandatory prepayments to the extent existing indebtedness exceeds the new borrowing base. We also have substantial interest payments due during the next twelve months on our Notes and our Credit Facility. If we fail to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our Credit Facility or the indentures governing our Notes, an Event of Default (as defined in the applicable agreements) could result, which would permit acceleration of the indebtedness under certain circumstances and could result in an Event of Default and acceleration of our other debt and permit our secured lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing such debt. Any accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable.While we will attempt to take appropriate mitigating actions to refinance any indebtedness prior to its maturity or otherwise extend the maturity dates, and to cure any potential defaults, there is no assurance that any particular actions with respect to refinancing existing indebtedness, extending the maturity of existing indebtedness or curing potential defaults in our existing and future debt agreements will be sufficient. The uncertainty associated with our ability to meet our obligations as they 16Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors Continuedbecome due raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.LINN Energy may not continue to provide funding to us for capital expenditures or other cash shortfalls.Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to us to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to us, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of our indebtedness. LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on LINN Energys ability to contribute capital or loan funds to us. In addition, LINN Energy is currently in default under its credit facility and is not able to make additional borrowings to provide funding to us. Absent funding from LINN Energy, we may not have sufficient cash available to finance our operations and other business activities.We are currently in default under the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.Under the Credit Facility, we are required to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or explanation. Because the audit report prepared by our auditors with respect to the financial statements includes such going concern explanation, we are currently in default under the Credit Facility.If we are unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If we are unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Notes would occur, which would, to the extent the applicable trustee or holders so elect, result in the acceleration of the Notes.Additionally, the indenture governing our 6.375% senior notes due September 2022 (the Berry 2022 Senior Notes Indenture) required us to make an interest payment on March 15, 2016. We elected to exercise our right to the grace period and, as a result, we are currently in default under the Berry 2022 Senior Notes Indenture. If we fail to make the interest payment within the 30 day grace period and are otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the holders under the Berry 2022 Senior Notes Indenture prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default (as defined in the Berry 2022 Senior Notes Indenture) will result and the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate principal amount of the series of our September 2022 Senior Notes could accelerate such notes, causing our September 2022 Senior Notes to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under the Berry 2022 Senior Notes Indenture triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. An acceleration under the Berry 2022 Senior Notes Indenture or the Credit Facility would result in cross default under other Berry senior notes and, if the trustee or noteholders so elect, acceleration thereunder.If lenders and noteholders accelerate our outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and we will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. We are currently in discussions with various stakeholders and are pursuing or considering a number of actions, but there can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed to meet certain obligations, and we could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.LINN Energy is currently in default under the LINN Energy credit facility, the LINN Second Lien Indenture and the LINN Energy Senior Notes Indenture, which default triggers a default under the Credit Facility and may result in acceleration thereunder. Acceleration under the Credit Facility will trigger a default under the Berry Senior Notes Indenture and may result in acceleration thereunder.Under the LINN Energy credit facility, LINN Energy is required to deliver audited consolidated financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or explanation. Because the audit report prepared by LINN Energys auditors with respect to LINN Energys consolidated financial statements includes such going concern explanation, LINN Energy is 17Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors Continuedcurrently in default under the LINN Energy credit facility. A default under the LINN Energy credit facility triggers a default under the Credit Facility.If LINN Energy is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the LINN Energy credit facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the LINN Energy credit facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. An Event of Default under the LINN Energy credit facility will also result in an Event of Default under the Credit Facility, which in the absence of a waiver or other suitable relief and upon the election of the agent or lenders holding a majority of commitments under the Credit Facility would result in the acceleration of indebtedness under the Credit Facility. Such Event of Default would trigger an Event of Default under the indentures governing the Notes (the Berry Senior Notes Indentures). If such Event of Default continues beyond any applicable cure periods, such Event of Default could result in an acceleration of the Notes.Additionally, the indenture governing LINN Energys second lien notes (the LINN Energy Second Lien Indenture) required LINN Energy to deliver mortgages by February 18, 2016, subject to a 45 day grace period. LINN Energy elected to exercise its right to the grace period and, as a result, LINN Energy is currently in default under the LINN Energy Second Lien Indenture. If LINN Energy does not deliver the mortgages within the 45 day grace period or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the holders under the LINN Energy Second Lien Indenture prior to the expiration of the 45 day grace period, an Event of Default will result under the LINN Energy Second Lien Indenture.Finally, the indentures (the LINN Energy Senior Notes Indentures) governing LINN Energys 6.50% Senior Notes due 2021 and LINN Energys 7.75% Senior Notes due 2021 required LINN Energy to make interest payments on March 15, 2016. LINN Energy elected to exercise its right to the grace period and, as a result, LINN Energy is currently in default under the LINN Energy Senior Notes Indentures. A default under the LINN Energy Senior Notes Indenture triggered a default under the LINN Energy credit facility and the Credit Facility. If LINN Energy fails to make the interest payments within the 30 day grace period and is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the holders under the LINN Energy Senior Notes Indentures prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default (as defined in the applicable indenture) will result under the LINN Energy Senior Notes Indentures.An Event of Default under each of the LINN Energy Second Lien Indenture and the LINN Energy Senior Notes Indentures triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. An acceleration under the Credit Facility would result in cross default under Berry Senior Notes Indentures and, if the applicable trustee or noteholders so elect, acceleration thereunder.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate our outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and we will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. We are currently considering a number of actions, but there can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed to meet certain obligations, and we could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.We may seek the protection of the United States Bankruptcy Court (Bankruptcy Court) which may harm our business.LINN Energy has engaged financial and legal advisors to assist it in, among other things, analyzing various strategic alternatives to address its and our liquidity and capital structure, including strategic and refinancing alternatives through a private restructuring. However, a filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 11) may be unavoidable. Seeking Bankruptcy Court protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As long as a Chapter 11 proceeding continues, our senior management would be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on our business operations. Bankruptcy Court protection also might make it more difficult to retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. Also during the Chapter 11 proceedings, our ability to enter into new commodity derivatives covering additional estimated future production would be dependent upon either entering into unsecured hedges or obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval to enter into secured hedges. Furthermore, counterparties under our existing hedge transactions may elect to terminate those transactions in connection with a bankruptcy filing without our consent.18Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors ContinuedAny reduction of the borrowing base under our Credit Facility will require us to repay that portion of indebtedness that exceeds the new borrowing base under our Credit Facility earlier than anticipated, which will adversely impact our liquidity.As of February 29, 2016, total borrowings (including outstanding letters of credit) under our Credit Facility were approximately $899 million with less than $1 million available. Our Credit Facility is subject to scheduled redeterminations of its borrowing base, semi annually in April and October, based primarily on reserve reports using lender commodity price expectations at such time. Additionally, the lenders under our Credit Facility have the ability to request an interim redetermination of the borrowing base once between scheduled redeterminations. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in our capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.Because our Credit Facility is effectively fully drawn, any reduction in the Credit Facilitys borrowing base will require us to make mandatory prepayments under the Credit Facility to the extent existing indebtedness under the Credit Facility exceeds the new borrowing bases. Although LINN Energy is not required to, it may choose to contribute or otherwise provide cash to us or post restricted cash on our behalf, which would reduce its liquidity position. We may have insufficient cash on hand to be able to make mandatory prepayments under the Credit Facility. Any failure to repay indebtedness in excess of our borrowing base in accordance with the terms of the Credit Facility would constitute an Event of Default under the Credit Facility. Such Event of Default would permit our lenders to accelerate the debt, which, if actually accelerated, would become immediately due and payable and could result in a cross default and cross acceleration under our other outstanding indebtedness, and could permit our secured lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing such indebtedness.Our ability to comply with financial covenants and ratios in our Credit Facility is affected by events beyond our control, including, among other things, continued low commodity prices. Absent a waiver or amendment, failure to meet these covenants and ratios could result in a default and potentially an acceleration of our existing indebtedness.The Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Based on current estimates and expectations for commodity prices in 2016, we do not expect to remain in compliance with all of the financial covenants and ratios throughout 2016 unless those requirements are waived or amended. Our inability to comply with the required financial ratios will, if not amended or waived, result in a default under the Credit Facility.In addition, the Credit Facility requires delivery of audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or explanation to the lenders no later than 90 days after the end of our fiscal year. Due to delivery of the audit report with such going concern explanation, we are in default under the Credit Facility. While the audit opinion is as of December 31, 2015, the default under the Credit Facility does not occur until we have failed to deliver an audit opinion without a going concern or like qualification on explanation, which is the filing date.A default under the Credit Facility, if not cured or waived, could result in an Event of Default which permits the acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding thereunder. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable, which would in turn trigger cross acceleration under our other debt. In addition, if an Event of Default under the Credit Facility occurs, the lenders could foreclose on the collateral and compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings or they could prevent us from making payments on our Notes. If the amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, our Notes or any of our other indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders and we may be unable to borrow sufficient funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing were then available, any such financing may not be on terms that are acceptable to us and may impose financial restrictions and other covenants on us that may be more restrictive than the Credit Facility or the indentures governing our Notes.Restrictive covenants in the Credit Facility and in the indentures governing the Notes could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.Restrictive covenants in the Credit Facility and in the indentures governing the Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and that of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:make distributions to our owner or make other restricted payments;19Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors Continuedincur or guarantee additional indebtedness;refinance certain indebtedness;create or incur liens;engage in certain mergers or consolidations or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;make certain investments or acquisitions;make certain sales, dispositions or transfers of assets;engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates;repurchase, redeem or retire our Notes; andpursue other corporate activities.We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants in the Credit Facility and in the indentures governing the Notes. The restrictions contained in the Credit Facility and those indentures could:limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions, to meet capital needs or otherwise to restrict our activities or business plan; andadversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.We have a significant level of debt, which could have significant consequences for our business and future prospects.As of February 29, 2016, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $1.7 billion outstanding under our Notes and our Credit Facility (with additional borrowing capacity of less than $1 million). Our debt and the limitations imposed on us by our existing or future debt agreements could have significant consequences for our business and future prospects, including the following:we will be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow to payments of interest and principal on our Credit Facility and Notes when due;we may be limited in our flexibility to plan for or react to changes in our business and industry in which we operate;we may not be able to finance our operations and other business activities; andwe may have a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our Credit Facility and Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as oil, natural gas and NGL prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy, the impact of legislative or regulatory actions on how we conduct our business or competitive initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. Consequently, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any cash flow insufficiency could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent we are unable to make scheduled interest payments or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or seek additional financing. Additional indebtedness and financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, and we may not be able to complete asset sales in a timely manner sufficient to make such repayments.Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement governing our Credit Facility and the indentures that govern our Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Moreover, these restrictions will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, as defined in the applicable agreements governing our existing indebtedness.20Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors ContinuedIf new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Our level of indebtedness could, for instance, prevent us from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us or from making desirable capital expenditures. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow to devote to their operations. In addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness could make it more difficult to satisfy our existing financial obligations.Our debt rating has been downgraded and liquidity concerns could result in a further downgrade in our debt ratings which could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, current or future financings or trade credit.Our ability to obtain financings and trade credit and the terms of any financings or trade credit is, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and commodity pricing levels. Further ratings downgrades could adversely impact our ability to access financings or trade credit, increase our borrowing costs and potentially require us to post letters of credit or other credit support for certain obligations.Our substantial indebtedness, liquidity concerns and potential restructuring transactions may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.Our substantial indebtedness, liquidity concerns and potential restructuring transactions may result in uncertainty about our business and cause, among other things:our suppliers, vendors, derivatives counterparties and service providers to renegotiate the terms of our agreements, terminate their relationship with us or require financial assurances from us; andthird parties to lose confidence in our ability to produce oil, natural gas and NGL, resulting in a significant decline in our revenues, profitability and cash flow.These events, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.Commodity prices are volatile, and prolonged depressed prices or a further decline in prices would reduce our revenues, net cash provided by operating activities and profitability and would significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our revenues, profitability, cash flow and the carrying value of our properties depend on the prices of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL. Historically, the oil, natural gas and NGL markets have been very volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile in the future, and prolonged depressed prices or a further decline in prices will significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in oil, natural gas and NGL prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our net cash provided by operating activities. In addition, revenues from certain wells may exceed production costs and nevertheless not generate sufficient return on capital. Prices for these commodities may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for them, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as:the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL;the price and level of foreign imports;the level of consumer product demand;weather conditions;overall domestic and global economic conditions;political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries;the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain price and production controls;the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil, natural gas and NGL prices;technological advances affecting energy consumption;domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation;the impact of energy conservation efforts;the proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation facilities; andthe price and availability of alternative fuels.21Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors ContinuedDuring 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL were extremely volatile and declined significantly. Downward pressure on commodity prices has continued in 2016 and may continue for the foreseeable future. The speed and severity of the decline in oil prices from 2014 to 2016 has materially affected our results of operations. If commodity prices continue at current levels for a prolonged period or further decline, our net cash provided by operating activities will decline and our financial position, the quantities of oil and natural gas reserves that we can economically produce, our cash flow available for capital expenditures, our ability to service our debt obligations, our ability to generate free cash flow after capital expenditures and debt service and our ability to access funds under our Credit Facility may be materially and adversely affected.The sustained oil, natural gas and NGL price declines have resulted in significant impairments of certain of our properties. Future declines in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance may result in additional write downs of the carrying amounts of our assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the period incurred.We evaluate the impairment of our oil and natural gas properties on a field by field basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $854 million. Future declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices, changes in expected capital development, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance, among other things, may result in us having to make additional material write downs of the carrying amounts of our assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the period incurred.We may be unable to hedge anticipated production volumes on attractive terms or at all, which would subject us to further potential commodity price uncertainty and could adversely affect our net cash provided by operating activities, financial condition and results of operations.Our anticipated production volumes remain mostly unhedged. Based on current expectations for continued low future commodity prices, reduced hedging market liquidity and potential reduced counterparty willingness to enter into new hedges with us, we may be unable to hedge anticipated production volumes on attractive terms or at all, which would subject us to further potential commodity price uncertainty and could adversely affect our net cash provided by operating activities, financial condition and results of operations.Counterparty failure may adversely affect our derivative positions.We cannot be assured that our counterparties will be able to perform under our derivative contracts. If a counterparty fails to perform and the derivative arrangement is terminated, our net cash provided by operating activities, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.Derivatives legislation and implementing rules could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.Title VII of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act), enacted in 2010, expands federal oversight and regulation of the derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. Those markets involve derivative transactions, which include certain instruments, such as interest rate swaps, forward contracts, option contracts, financial contracts and other contracts, used in our risk management activities. The Dodd Frank Act requires that most swaps ultimately will be cleared through a registered clearing facility and that they be traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility, with certain exceptions for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. The Dodd Frank requirements relating to derivative transactions have not been fully implemented by the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. When fully implemented, the law and any new regulations could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts and affect the number and or creditworthiness of available counterparties.In addition, we may transact with counterparties based in the European Union, Canada or other jurisdictions which, like the U.S., are in the process of implementing regulations to regulate derivatives transactions, some of which are currently in effect and impose operational and transactional costs on our derivatives activities.Unless we replace our reserves, our future reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our net cash provided by operating activities, financial condition and results of operations.22Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors ContinuedProducing oil, natural gas and NGL reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. The overall rate of decline for our production will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Thus, our future oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our net cash provided by operating activities, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, given our significant level of indebtedness, current market conditions and restrictive covenants under our debt agreements, we may be unable to finance such potential acquisitions of reserves on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and natural gas reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. We also may not be successful in raising funds to acquire additional reserves.Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.No one can measure underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGL in an exact manner. Reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGL and assumptions concerning future oil, natural gas and NGL prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. An independent petroleum engineering firm prepares estimates of our proved reserves. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future oil, natural gas and NGL prices, production levels and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual amounts could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Decreases in commodity prices can result in a reduction of our estimated reserves if development of those reserves would not be economic at those lower prices. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates.The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on an unweighted average of the first day of the month price for each month during the 12 month calendar year and year end costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as:actual prices we receive for oil, natural gas and NGL;the amount and timing of actual production;capital and operating expenditures;the timing and success of development activities;supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL; andchanges in governmental regulations or taxation.In addition, the 10% discount factor required to be used under the provisions of applicable accounting standards when calculating discounted future net cash flows, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general.Our development operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available to service debt. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves.The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development and production of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available to service debt. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily with net cash provided by 23Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors Continuedoperating activities. Our net cash provided by operating activities and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:our proved reserves;the level of oil, natural gas and NGL we are able to produce from existing wells;the prices at which we are able to sell our oil, natural gas and NGL;the level of operating expenses; andour ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.If our net cash provided by operating activities or the borrowing base under our Credit Facility decreases, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. In addition, as noted previously, our Credit Facility is effectively fully drawn, precluding our ability to utilize our Credit Facility to fund our operations. Our Credit Facility also restricts our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If net cash provided by operating activities or cash available under our Credit Facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain such additional financing could result in a curtailment of our development operations, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves.We may decide not to drill some of the prospects we have identified, and locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil, natural gas and NGL in commercially viable quantities.Our prospective drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require additional geological and engineering analysis. Based on a variety of factors, including future oil, natural gas and NGL prices, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the current and future availability of drilling rigs and other factors, we may decide not to drill one or more of these prospects. In addition, the cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomic if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil, natural gas and NGL to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. As a result, we may not be able to increase or sustain our reserves or production, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The SECs reserve reporting rules include a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be recorded if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years. As a result of the uncertainty regarding our future commitment to capital, we reclassified all of our proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for details regarding our going concern uncertainty.Our business depends on gathering and transportation facilities. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil, natural gas and NGL we produce, and could reduce our cash available to service debt and adversely impact expected increases in oil, natural gas and NGL production from our drilling program.The marketability of our oil, natural gas and NGL production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering systems and pipelines. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells are drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering and transportation pipelines, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the oil, natural gas and NGL production from these wells until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, would interfere with our ability to market the oil, natural gas and NGL we produce, and could reduce our cash available to service debt and adversely impact expected increases in oil, natural gas and NGL production from our drilling program.The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.24Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors ContinuedWe have significant concentrations of credit risk with the purchasers of our oil and natural gas. For the year ended December 31, 2015, sales of oil, natural gas and NGL to Tesoro Corporation, Phillips 66 and Exxon Mobil Corporation accounted for approximately 24%, 23% and 20%, respectively, of the Companys sales. Due to the terms of supply agreements with our customers, we may not know that a customer is unable to make payment to us until months after production has been delivered. If the purchasers of our oil and natural gas become insolvent, we may be unable to collect amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells.Many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of reserves in these areas. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Drilling for and producing oil, natural gas and NGL are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows and, as a result, our ability to service debt.Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil, natural gas and NGL can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including:the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services;unexpected operational events;adverse weather conditions;facility or equipment malfunctions;title problems;pipeline ruptures or spills;compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;unusual or unexpected geological formations;loss of drilling fluid circulation;formations with abnormal pressures;fires;blowouts, craterings and explosions; anduncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and NGL or well fluids.Any of these events can cause increased costs or restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations which we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling program or significant increase in costs could impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and as a result, our ability to service debt.Because we handle oil, natural gas and NGL and other hydrocarbons, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment.The operations of our wells, gathering systems, turbines, pipelines and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. In addition, an accidental release from one of our wells or gathering pipelines could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations.25Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors ContinuedMoreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, and these costs may not be recoverable from insurance. For a more detailed discussion of environmental and regulatory matters impacting our business, see Item 1. Business Environmental Matters and Regulation.A shortage or increase in the price of natural gas in California could materially and adversely affect our business.The development of our heavy oil in California is subject to our ability to generate sufficient quantities of steam at an economic cost. We may be subject to the risks associated with a shortage of natural gas and or the transportation of natural gas into and within California. We are highly dependent on sufficient volumes of natural gas necessary to use for fuel in generating steam in our heavy oil operations in California. If the required volume of natural gas for use in our operations were to be unavailable or too highly priced to produce heavy oil economically, our production, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted.We are dependent on our cogeneration facilities and deteriorations in the electricity market and regulatory changes in California may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are dependent on three cogeneration facilities that, combined, provided approximately 12% of our steam capacity for the year ended December 31, 2015. These facilities are dependent on viable contracts for the sale of electricity. Market fluctuations in electricity prices and regulatory changes in California could adversely affect the economics of our cogeneration facilities and the corresponding increase in the price of steam could significantly impact our operating costs. If we are unable to enter into new or replacement contracts or were to lose existing contracts, we may be unable to meet our steam requirements necessary to maximize production from our heavy oil assets. An additional investment in various steam sources may be necessary to replace such steam, and there may be risks and delays in being able to install conventional steam equipment due to permitting requirements and availability of equipment. The financial cost and timing of such new investment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For a more detailed discussion of our electricity sales contracts, see Item 1. Business Electricity.LINN Energy controls us and its indirect interests as our sole equity holder may conflict with the interests of holders of our senior notes.We are an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of LINN Energy. The interests of LINN Energy may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of the holders of our debt. We are managed by officers and employees of LINN Energy, who will make determinations with respect to our business, our capital expenditures and our cash management. Other than with respect to the agreements governing our indebtedness, there are no contractual restrictions on our ability to make distributions to LINN Energy. Our management could determine to increase our distributions to LINN Energy to support its cash needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we encounter financial difficulties or become unable to pay our debts as they mature, LINN Energy does not have any liability for any obligations under our senior notes. LINN Energy may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions, even though such transactions might involve risks to our business or the holders of our debt. Furthermore, LINN Energy may own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. LINN Energy also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to LINN Energys business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.If LINN Energy fails to provide the personnel necessary to conduct our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We do not have any employees. All of our former employees that were retained after the LINN Energy transaction became employees of Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, and along with other LOI personnel, provide services and support to us in accordance with an agency agreement and power of attorney between the Company and LOI. We depend on the services of these individuals. If their services are unavailable to us for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have resulted in delays and increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and 26Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors Continuednatural gas wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects.Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil, natural gas and NGL we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to service debt. For a description of the laws and regulations that affect us, see Item 1. Business Environmental Matters and Regulation.Legislation and regulation of hydraulic fracturing could adversely affect our business.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. For a description of the laws and regulations that affect us, including our hydraulic fracturing operations, see Item 1. Business Environmental Matters and Regulation. If adopted, certain bills could result in additional permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations as well as various restrictions on those operations. Any such added regulation could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens, and reduced production of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and net cash provided by operating activities.We use a significant amount of water in our hydraulic fracturing operations. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our drilling and production operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the development or production of natural gas.Finally, in some instances, the operation of underground injection wells has been alleged to cause earthquakes. Such issues have sometimes led to orders prohibiting continued injection in certain wells identified as possible sources of seismic activity. Such concerns also have resulted in stricter regulatory requirements in some jurisdictions relating to the location and operation of underground injection wells. Future orders or regulations addressing concerns about seismic activity from well injection could affect us, either directly or indirectly, depending on the wells affected.Legislation and regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely affect our business.In December 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (GHG) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earths atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (CAA). The EPA has adopted three sets of rules regulating GHG emissions under the CAA, one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles, a second that regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources under the CAAs Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V permitting programs, and a third that regulates GHG emissions from fossil fuel burning power plants. In addition, in September 2015, the EPA published a proposed rule that would update and expand the New Source Performance Standards by setting additional emissions limits for volatile organic compounds and regulating methane emissions from new and modified sources in the oil and gas industry. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the U.S., including, among other things, certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis. In addition, in 2015, the U.S. participated in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement will be open for signing on April 22, 2016, and will require countries to review and represent a progression in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG 27Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk Factors Continuedemission reduction goals, every five years beginning in 2020. Legislation has from time to time been introduced in Congress that would establish measures restricting GHG emissions in the U.S. At the state level, almost one half of the states, including California, have begun taking actions to control and or reduce emissions of GHGs. For a description of the California cap and trade program, see Item 1. Business Environmental Matters and Regulation. Any such added regulation could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens, and reduced production of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and net cash provided by operating activities.Recent regulatory changes in California have and may continue to adversely affect our production and operating costs related to our Diatomite assets.Recent regulatory changes in California have impacted production from our Diatomite assets. In 2010, Diatomite production decreased significantly due to the inability to drill new wells pending the receipt of permits from the California Division of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources (DOGGR). Berry received a new full field development approval in late July 2011 from DOGGR, which contained stringent operating requirements. Revisions to the July 2011 project approval letter were received in February 2012. Implementation of these new operating requirements negatively impacted the pace of drilling and steam injection and increased Berrys operating costs for its Diatomite assets. The requirements continued to affect Berrys operations through 2015, and we may not be successful in streamlining the review process with DOGGR or in taking additional steps to more efficiently manage our operations to avoid additional delays. In addition, DOGGR may impose additional operational restrictions or requirements. For example, currently DOGGR is developing new regulations for shallow, thermal Diatomite. In such case, we may experience additional delays in production and increased operating costs related to our Diatomite assets, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and net cash provided by operating activities.Item 1B.Unresolved Staff CommentsNoneItem 2.PropertiesInformation concerning proved reserves, production, wells, acreage and related matters are contained in Item 1. Business.The Companys obligations under its Credit Facility are secured by mortgages on a substantial majority of its oil and natural gas properties. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 3 for additional details about the Credit Facility.OfficesThe Companys principal corporate office is located at 600 Travis, Suite 5100, Houston, Texas 77002. The Company maintains additional offices in California, Colorado, Texas and Utah.Item 3.Legal ProceedingsThe Company is involved in various lawsuits, claims and inquiries, most of which are routine to the nature of its business. In the opinion of management, the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on its overall business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity; however, cash flow could be significantly impacted in the reporting periods in which such matters are resolved.Item 4.Mine Safety DisclosureNot applicable28Table of ContentsPart IIItem 5.Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesAs a result of the LINN Energy transaction, Berry is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of LINN Energy. Berrys sole member is Linn Acquisition Company, LLC, a direct subsidiary of LINN Energy, and Berrys equity is not publicly traded.DividendsThe Companys predecessor paid a regular dividend of $0.32 per share for the period ended December 16, 2013. The Company has not declared cash dividends since the LINN Energy transaction and due to its debt financing arrangements, its ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to restrictions should it seek to do so in the future. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 3.Sales of Unregistered SecuritiesIn conjunction with the LINN Energy transaction, the Company converted from a Delaware corporation into a Delaware limited liability company. The conversion of the Companys common stock into membership interests was not registered and will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (Securities Act), or any state securities laws, in reliance on Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act as these transactions were by an issuer not involving a public offering.Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesNoneItem 6.Selected Financial DataItem 6 has been omitted from this report pursuant to the reduced disclosure format permitted by General Instruction I to Form 10 K.29Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedthose requirements are waived or amended. The Company does not currently have adequate liquidity to repay all of its outstanding debt in full if such debt were accelerated;because the Credit Facility is effectively fully drawn, any reduction of the borrowing base under the Companys Credit Facility would require mandatory prepayments to the extent existing indebtedness exceeds the new borrowing base. The Company may not have sufficient cash on hand to be able to make any such mandatory prepayments; andthe Companys ability to make interest payments as they become due and repay indebtedness upon maturities (whether under existing terms or as a result of acceleration) is impacted by the Companys liquidity. As of February 29, 2016, there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under the Credit Facility.The Companys management is in the process of evaluating strategic alternatives to help provide the Company with financial stability, but no assurance can be given as to the outcome or timing of this process.The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of the going concern uncertainty.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default (as defined in the applicable agreements) will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize cash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.31Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedLINN Energy TransactionOn December 16, 2013, the Company completed the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement between LINN Energy, LinnCo, an affiliate of LINN Energy, and Berry under which LinnCo acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Berry and the contribution agreement between LinnCo and LINN Energy, under which LinnCo contributed Berry to LINN Energy in exchange for LINN Energy units. Under the merger agreement, as amended, Berrys shareholders received 1.68 LinnCo common shares for each Berry common share they owned, totaling 93,756,674 LinnCo common shares. Under the contribution agreement, LinnCo contributed Berry to LINN Energy in exchange for 93,756,674 newly issued LINN Energy units, after which Berry became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of LINN Energy. The transaction was valued at approximately $4.6 billion, including the assumption of approximately $2.3 billion of Berrys debt and net of cash acquired of approximately $451 million.Predecessor and Successor ReportingAs a result of the impact of pushdown accounting on the acquisition date (see Note 1), the Companys financial statements and certain note presentations are separated into two distinct periods, the period before the consummation of the LINN Energy transaction (labeled predecessor) and the period after that date (labeled successor), to indicate the application of a different basis of accounting between the periods presented. Despite this separate GAAP presentation, the successor had no independent oil and natural gas operations prior to the acquisition, and, accordingly, there were no operational activities that changed as a result of the acquisition of the predecessor. Consequently, given the continuity of operations, when assessing variance analysis of the historical results of operations and financial performance, the reader may wish to combine predecessor and successor results for the year ended December 31, 2013.Financing ActivitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Credit Facility). The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion, including $250 million posted as restricted cash (discussed below). The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million, including the $250 million of restricted cash. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.See Note 3 for additional details about the Companys debt.Commodity DerivativesDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company entered into commodity derivative contracts consisting of natural gas basis swaps for May 2015 through December 2016 to hedge exposure to differentials in certain producing areas and oil swaps for April 2015 through December 2015. In addition, the Company entered into natural gas basis swaps for May 2015 through December 2016 to hedge exposure to the differential in California, where it consumes natural gas in its heavy oil development operations.32Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedResults of OperationsThe following table presents the Companys results of operations for each of the successor and predecessor periods presented: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Revenues and other: Oil sales$463,369 $1,146,047 $45,655 $1,006,539Natural gas sales90,150 125,539 3,416 67,877NGL sales21,512 26,816 1,253 28,829Total oil, natural gas and NGL sales575,031 1,298,402 50,324 1,103,245Electricity sales24,544 40,022 1,444 33,992Gains (losses) on oil and natural gas derivatives29,175 78,784 (5,049) (34,711)Marketing and other revenues12,904 14,081 399 8,776 641,654 1,431,289 47,118 1,111,302Expenses: Lease operating expenses245,155 364,540 15,410 295,811Electricity generation expenses18,057 28,171 1,257 22,485Transportation expenses52,160 41,842 2,576 46,774Marketing expenses3,809 8,084 376 7,593General and administrative expenses85,993 102,787 20,298 122,991Exploration costs 24,048Depreciation, depletion and amortization251,371 302,353 10,845 279,757Impairment of long lived assets853,810 253,362 Taxes, other than income taxes70,593 97,708 2,130 57,063(Gains) losses on sale of assets and other, net(1,919) 120,786 10,208 (23) 1,579,029 1,319,633 63,100 856,499Other income and (expenses)(77,870) (88,991) (3,991) (96,076)Income (loss) before income taxes(1,015,245) 22,665 (19,973) 158,727Income tax expense (benefit)(68) 69 65,280Net income (loss)$(1,015,177) $22,596 $(19,973) $93,44733Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding average daily production, total production, average prices and average costs for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production: Oil (MBbls/d)30.0 36.7 33.1 30.6Natural gas (MMcf/d)92.7 79.3 55.1 51.2NGL (MBbls/d)2.9 1.8 2.3 2.2Total (MBOE/d)48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3 Total production: Oil (MBbls)10,963 13,394 496 10,712Natural gas (MMcf)33,852 28,938 826 17,931NGL (MBbls)1,061 671 34 760Total (MBOE)17,666 18,888 667 14,460 Weighted average prices: (1) Oil (Bbl)$42.27 $85.56 $92.05 $93.96Natural gas (Mcf)$2.66 $4.34 $4.14 $3.79NGL (Bbl)$20.27 $39.96 $36.85 $37.95 Average NYMEX prices: Oil (Bbl)$48.80 $93.00 $98.88 $98.01Natural gas (MMBtu)$2.66 $4.41 $4.38 $3.70 Costs per BOE of production: Lease operating expenses$13.88 $19.30 $23.10 $20.46Transportation expenses$2.95 $2.22 $3.86 $3.23General and administrative expenses$4.87 $5.44 $30.43 $8.51Depreciation, depletion and amortization$14.23 $16.01 $16.26 $19.35Taxes, other than income taxes$4.00 $5.17 $3.19 $3.95(1) Does not include the effect of gains (losses) on derivatives.34Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding production volumes for fields with greater than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Total production: Hugoton Basin Field: Oil (MBbls) * *Natural gas (MMcf)16,831 7,314 * *NGL (MBbls)814 223 * *Total (MBOE)3,619 1,442 * *SJV Diatomite Field: Oil (MBbls)2,939 3,260 103 1,798Natural gas (MMcf) NGL (MBbls) Total (MBOE)2,939 3,260 103 1,798SJV South Midway Field: Oil (MBbls)2,598 * 99 2,431Natural gas (MMcf) * NGL (MBbls) * Total (MBOE)2,598 * 99 2,431Uinta Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 76 1,587Natural gas (MMcf)* * 362 6,243NGL (MBbls)* * 8 181Total (MBOE)* * 144 2,810Midland Basin Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 75 1,847Natural gas (MMcf)* * 129 2,983NGL (MBbls)* * 24 529Total (MBOE)* * 120 2,874*Represented less than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for the year or period indicated.Revenues and OtherOil, Natural Gas and NGL SalesOil, natural gas and NGL sales decreased by approximately $723 million or 56% to approximately $575 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $474 million, $57 million and $21 million, respectively.Average daily production volumes decreased to approximately 48 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014. Lower oil production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $208 million. Higher natural gas and NGL production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $21 million and $16 million, respectively.Oil, natural gas and NGL sales increased by approximately $145 million or 13% to approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $50 million and $1.1 billion for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, due to higher production volumes and 35Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedhigher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Higher natural gas and NGL prices resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $16 million and $1 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower oil prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $111 million in 2014.Average daily production volumes increased to approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately 44 MBOE/d and 41 MBOE/d for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher oil and natural gas production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $205 million and $39 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower NGL production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $5 million in 2014.The following table sets forth average daily production by operating area: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production (MBOE/d): California25.8 26.0 23.0 20.8Hugoton Basin9.9 4.0 Uinta Basin8.0 10.9 9.6 8.0Piceance Basin3.1 1.9 2.1 2.3East Texas1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0Permian Basin 7.2 8.0 8.2 48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3The decrease in average daily production volumes in California in 2015 primarily reflects recent operational challenges in the Companys Diatomite development program, offset by the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) on November 21, 2014. The Company is pursuing various remedies to address Diatomite wells performance and has temporarily curtailed capital spending in this program. Average daily production volumes in the Hugoton Basin operating area reflect the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation and its affiliates, including its wholly owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (Exxon XTO) on August 15, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Uinta Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2015 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin operating area in 2015 primarily reflects development capital spending. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Permian Basin operating area in 2015 and 2014 reflects the properties relinquished in the two exchanges with ExxonMobil and Exxon XTO and the properties sold to Fleur de Lis Energy, LLC (Permian Basin Assets Sale) on November 14, 2014. The Company had no Permian Basin properties remaining as of December 31, 2014.The increase in average daily production volumes in California and the Uinta Basin operating area in 2014 primarily reflects development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in California in 2014 also reflects the impact of the properties received in the exchange with ExxonMobil on November 21, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2014 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending.36Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedElectricity SalesThe following table sets forth selected electricity data: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Electricity sales (in thousands)$24,544 $40,022 $1,444 $33,992Electricity generation expenses (in thousands)$18,057 $28,171 $1,257 $22,485Electric power produced (Mwh/d)2,012 2,071 2,217 1,950Electric power sold (Mwh/d)1,782 1,882 1,999 1,797Average sales price per Mwh$37.74 $59.80 $48.15 $53.78Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce electricity (MMBtu/d) (1)13,767 14,948 16,142 14,536(1) Estimate is based on the historical allocation of fuel costs to electricity.Electricity sales represent sales to utilities and decreased by approximately $15 million or 39% to approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold during the period.Electricity sales increased by approximately $5 million or 13% to approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $34 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold year over year.Gains (Losses) on Oil and Natural Gas DerivativesGains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $29 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $50 million. Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives decreased primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts. The results for 2014 also include cash settlements of approximately $12 million related to canceled derivatives contracts.Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $5 million and $35 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, and were primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts.The fair value on unsettled derivatives contracts changes as future commodity price expectations change compared to the contract prices on the derivatives. If the expected future commodity prices increase compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, losses are recognized; and if the expected future commodity prices decrease compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, gains are recognized.The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys commodity derivatives. For information about the Companys credit risk related to derivative contracts, see Counterparty Credit Risk under Liquidity and Capital Resources below.Marketing and Other RevenuesMarketing revenues primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize this capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Sales of third party natural 37Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedLINN Energy TransactionOn December 16, 2013, the Company completed the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement between LINN Energy, LinnCo, an affiliate of LINN Energy, and Berry under which LinnCo acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Berry and the contribution agreement between LinnCo and LINN Energy, under which LinnCo contributed Berry to LINN Energy in exchange for LINN Energy units. Under the merger agreement, as amended, Berrys shareholders received 1.68 LinnCo common shares for each Berry common share they owned, totaling 93,756,674 LinnCo common shares. Under the contribution agreement, LinnCo contributed Berry to LINN Energy in exchange for 93,756,674 newly issued LINN Energy units, after which Berry became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of LINN Energy. The transaction was valued at approximately $4.6 billion, including the assumption of approximately $2.3 billion of Berrys debt and net of cash acquired of approximately $451 million.Predecessor and Successor ReportingAs a result of the impact of pushdown accounting on the acquisition date (see Note 1), the Companys financial statements and certain note presentations are separated into two distinct periods, the period before the consummation of the LINN Energy transaction (labeled predecessor) and the period after that date (labeled successor), to indicate the application of a different basis of accounting between the periods presented. Despite this separate GAAP presentation, the successor had no independent oil and natural gas operations prior to the acquisition, and, accordingly, there were no operational activities that changed as a result of the acquisition of the predecessor. Consequently, given the continuity of operations, when assessing variance analysis of the historical results of operations and financial performance, the reader may wish to combine predecessor and successor results for the year ended December 31, 2013.Financing ActivitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Credit Facility). The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion, including $250 million posted as restricted cash (discussed below). The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million, including the $250 million of restricted cash. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.See Note 3 for additional details about the Companys debt.Commodity DerivativesDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company entered into commodity derivative contracts consisting of natural gas basis swaps for May 2015 through December 2016 to hedge exposure to differentials in certain producing areas and oil swaps for April 2015 through December 2015. In addition, the Company entered into natural gas basis swaps for May 2015 through December 2016 to hedge exposure to the differential in California, where it consumes natural gas in its heavy oil development operations.32Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedResults of OperationsThe following table presents the Companys results of operations for each of the successor and predecessor periods presented: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Revenues and other: Oil sales$463,369 $1,146,047 $45,655 $1,006,539Natural gas sales90,150 125,539 3,416 67,877NGL sales21,512 26,816 1,253 28,829Total oil, natural gas and NGL sales575,031 1,298,402 50,324 1,103,245Electricity sales24,544 40,022 1,444 33,992Gains (losses) on oil and natural gas derivatives29,175 78,784 (5,049) (34,711)Marketing and other revenues12,904 14,081 399 8,776 641,654 1,431,289 47,118 1,111,302Expenses: Lease operating expenses245,155 364,540 15,410 295,811Electricity generation expenses18,057 28,171 1,257 22,485Transportation expenses52,160 41,842 2,576 46,774Marketing expenses3,809 8,084 376 7,593General and administrative expenses85,993 102,787 20,298 122,991Exploration costs 24,048Depreciation, depletion and amortization251,371 302,353 10,845 279,757Impairment of long lived assets853,810 253,362 Taxes, other than income taxes70,593 97,708 2,130 57,063(Gains) losses on sale of assets and other, net(1,919) 120,786 10,208 (23) 1,579,029 1,319,633 63,100 856,499Other income and (expenses)(77,870) (88,991) (3,991) (96,076)Income (loss) before income taxes(1,015,245) 22,665 (19,973) 158,727Income tax expense (benefit)(68) 69 65,280Net income (loss)$(1,015,177) $22,596 $(19,973) $93,44733Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding average daily production, total production, average prices and average costs for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production: Oil (MBbls/d)30.0 36.7 33.1 30.6Natural gas (MMcf/d)92.7 79.3 55.1 51.2NGL (MBbls/d)2.9 1.8 2.3 2.2Total (MBOE/d)48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3 Total production: Oil (MBbls)10,963 13,394 496 10,712Natural gas (MMcf)33,852 28,938 826 17,931NGL (MBbls)1,061 671 34 760Total (MBOE)17,666 18,888 667 14,460 Weighted average prices: (1) Oil (Bbl)$42.27 $85.56 $92.05 $93.96Natural gas (Mcf)$2.66 $4.34 $4.14 $3.79NGL (Bbl)$20.27 $39.96 $36.85 $37.95 Average NYMEX prices: Oil (Bbl)$48.80 $93.00 $98.88 $98.01Natural gas (MMBtu)$2.66 $4.41 $4.38 $3.70 Costs per BOE of production: Lease operating expenses$13.88 $19.30 $23.10 $20.46Transportation expenses$2.95 $2.22 $3.86 $3.23General and administrative expenses$4.87 $5.44 $30.43 $8.51Depreciation, depletion and amortization$14.23 $16.01 $16.26 $19.35Taxes, other than income taxes$4.00 $5.17 $3.19 $3.95(1) Does not include the effect of gains (losses) on derivatives.34Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding production volumes for fields with greater than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Total production: Hugoton Basin Field: Oil (MBbls) * *Natural gas (MMcf)16,831 7,314 * *NGL (MBbls)814 223 * *Total (MBOE)3,619 1,442 * *SJV Diatomite Field: Oil (MBbls)2,939 3,260 103 1,798Natural gas (MMcf) NGL (MBbls) Total (MBOE)2,939 3,260 103 1,798SJV South Midway Field: Oil (MBbls)2,598 * 99 2,431Natural gas (MMcf) * NGL (MBbls) * Total (MBOE)2,598 * 99 2,431Uinta Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 76 1,587Natural gas (MMcf)* * 362 6,243NGL (MBbls)* * 8 181Total (MBOE)* * 144 2,810Midland Basin Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 75 1,847Natural gas (MMcf)* * 129 2,983NGL (MBbls)* * 24 529Total (MBOE)* * 120 2,874*Represented less than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for the year or period indicated.Revenues and OtherOil, Natural Gas and NGL SalesOil, natural gas and NGL sales decreased by approximately $723 million or 56% to approximately $575 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $474 million, $57 million and $21 million, respectively.Average daily production volumes decreased to approximately 48 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014. Lower oil production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $208 million. Higher natural gas and NGL production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $21 million and $16 million, respectively.Oil, natural gas and NGL sales increased by approximately $145 million or 13% to approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $50 million and $1.1 billion for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, due to higher production volumes and 35Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedhigher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Higher natural gas and NGL prices resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $16 million and $1 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower oil prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $111 million in 2014.Average daily production volumes increased to approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately 44 MBOE/d and 41 MBOE/d for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher oil and natural gas production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $205 million and $39 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower NGL production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $5 million in 2014.The following table sets forth average daily production by operating area: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production (MBOE/d): California25.8 26.0 23.0 20.8Hugoton Basin9.9 4.0 Uinta Basin8.0 10.9 9.6 8.0Piceance Basin3.1 1.9 2.1 2.3East Texas1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0Permian Basin 7.2 8.0 8.2 48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3The decrease in average daily production volumes in California in 2015 primarily reflects recent operational challenges in the Companys Diatomite development program, offset by the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) on November 21, 2014. The Company is pursuing various remedies to address Diatomite wells performance and has temporarily curtailed capital spending in this program. Average daily production volumes in the Hugoton Basin operating area reflect the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation and its affiliates, including its wholly owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (Exxon XTO) on August 15, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Uinta Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2015 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin operating area in 2015 primarily reflects development capital spending. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Permian Basin operating area in 2015 and 2014 reflects the properties relinquished in the two exchanges with ExxonMobil and Exxon XTO and the properties sold to Fleur de Lis Energy, LLC (Permian Basin Assets Sale) on November 14, 2014. The Company had no Permian Basin properties remaining as of December 31, 2014.The increase in average daily production volumes in California and the Uinta Basin operating area in 2014 primarily reflects development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in California in 2014 also reflects the impact of the properties received in the exchange with ExxonMobil on November 21, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2014 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending.36Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedElectricity SalesThe following table sets forth selected electricity data: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Electricity sales (in thousands)$24,544 $40,022 $1,444 $33,992Electricity generation expenses (in thousands)$18,057 $28,171 $1,257 $22,485Electric power produced (Mwh/d)2,012 2,071 2,217 1,950Electric power sold (Mwh/d)1,782 1,882 1,999 1,797Average sales price per Mwh$37.74 $59.80 $48.15 $53.78Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce electricity (MMBtu/d) (1)13,767 14,948 16,142 14,536(1) Estimate is based on the historical allocation of fuel costs to electricity.Electricity sales represent sales to utilities and decreased by approximately $15 million or 39% to approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold during the period.Electricity sales increased by approximately $5 million or 13% to approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $34 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold year over year.Gains (Losses) on Oil and Natural Gas DerivativesGains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $29 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $50 million. Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives decreased primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts. The results for 2014 also include cash settlements of approximately $12 million related to canceled derivatives contracts.Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $5 million and $35 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, and were primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts.The fair value on unsettled derivatives contracts changes as future commodity price expectations change compared to the contract prices on the derivatives. If the expected future commodity prices increase compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, losses are recognized; and if the expected future commodity prices decrease compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, gains are recognized.The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys commodity derivatives. For information about the Companys credit risk related to derivative contracts, see Counterparty Credit Risk under Liquidity and Capital Resources below.Marketing and Other RevenuesMarketing revenues primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize this capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Sales of third party natural 37Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedResults of OperationsThe following table presents the Companys results of operations for each of the successor and predecessor periods presented: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Revenues and other: Oil sales$463,369 $1,146,047 $45,655 $1,006,539Natural gas sales90,150 125,539 3,416 67,877NGL sales21,512 26,816 1,253 28,829Total oil, natural gas and NGL sales575,031 1,298,402 50,324 1,103,245Electricity sales24,544 40,022 1,444 33,992Gains (losses) on oil and natural gas derivatives29,175 78,784 (5,049) (34,711)Marketing and other revenues12,904 14,081 399 8,776 641,654 1,431,289 47,118 1,111,302Expenses: Lease operating expenses245,155 364,540 15,410 295,811Electricity generation expenses18,057 28,171 1,257 22,485Transportation expenses52,160 41,842 2,576 46,774Marketing expenses3,809 8,084 376 7,593General and administrative expenses85,993 102,787 20,298 122,991Exploration costs 24,048Depreciation, depletion and amortization251,371 302,353 10,845 279,757Impairment of long lived assets853,810 253,362 Taxes, other than income taxes70,593 97,708 2,130 57,063(Gains) losses on sale of assets and other, net(1,919) 120,786 10,208 (23) 1,579,029 1,319,633 63,100 856,499Other income and (expenses)(77,870) (88,991) (3,991) (96,076)Income (loss) before income taxes(1,015,245) 22,665 (19,973) 158,727Income tax expense (benefit)(68) 69 65,280Net income (loss)$(1,015,177) $22,596 $(19,973) $93,44733Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding average daily production, total production, average prices and average costs for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production: Oil (MBbls/d)30.0 36.7 33.1 30.6Natural gas (MMcf/d)92.7 79.3 55.1 51.2NGL (MBbls/d)2.9 1.8 2.3 2.2Total (MBOE/d)48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3 Total production: Oil (MBbls)10,963 13,394 496 10,712Natural gas (MMcf)33,852 28,938 826 17,931NGL (MBbls)1,061 671 34 760Total (MBOE)17,666 18,888 667 14,460 Weighted average prices: (1) Oil (Bbl)$42.27 $85.56 $92.05 $93.96Natural gas (Mcf)$2.66 $4.34 $4.14 $3.79NGL (Bbl)$20.27 $39.96 $36.85 $37.95 Average NYMEX prices: Oil (Bbl)$48.80 $93.00 $98.88 $98.01Natural gas (MMBtu)$2.66 $4.41 $4.38 $3.70 Costs per BOE of production: Lease operating expenses$13.88 $19.30 $23.10 $20.46Transportation expenses$2.95 $2.22 $3.86 $3.23General and administrative expenses$4.87 $5.44 $30.43 $8.51Depreciation, depletion and amortization$14.23 $16.01 $16.26 $19.35Taxes, other than income taxes$4.00 $5.17 $3.19 $3.95(1) Does not include the effect of gains (losses) on derivatives.34Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding production volumes for fields with greater than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Total production: Hugoton Basin Field: Oil (MBbls) * *Natural gas (MMcf)16,831 7,314 * *NGL (MBbls)814 223 * *Total (MBOE)3,619 1,442 * *SJV Diatomite Field: Oil (MBbls)2,939 3,260 103 1,798Natural gas (MMcf) NGL (MBbls) Total (MBOE)2,939 3,260 103 1,798SJV South Midway Field: Oil (MBbls)2,598 * 99 2,431Natural gas (MMcf) * NGL (MBbls) * Total (MBOE)2,598 * 99 2,431Uinta Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 76 1,587Natural gas (MMcf)* * 362 6,243NGL (MBbls)* * 8 181Total (MBOE)* * 144 2,810Midland Basin Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 75 1,847Natural gas (MMcf)* * 129 2,983NGL (MBbls)* * 24 529Total (MBOE)* * 120 2,874*Represented less than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for the year or period indicated.Revenues and OtherOil, Natural Gas and NGL SalesOil, natural gas and NGL sales decreased by approximately $723 million or 56% to approximately $575 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $474 million, $57 million and $21 million, respectively.Average daily production volumes decreased to approximately 48 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014. Lower oil production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $208 million. Higher natural gas and NGL production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $21 million and $16 million, respectively.Oil, natural gas and NGL sales increased by approximately $145 million or 13% to approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $50 million and $1.1 billion for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, due to higher production volumes and 35Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedhigher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Higher natural gas and NGL prices resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $16 million and $1 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower oil prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $111 million in 2014.Average daily production volumes increased to approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately 44 MBOE/d and 41 MBOE/d for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher oil and natural gas production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $205 million and $39 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower NGL production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $5 million in 2014.The following table sets forth average daily production by operating area: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production (MBOE/d): California25.8 26.0 23.0 20.8Hugoton Basin9.9 4.0 Uinta Basin8.0 10.9 9.6 8.0Piceance Basin3.1 1.9 2.1 2.3East Texas1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0Permian Basin 7.2 8.0 8.2 48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3The decrease in average daily production volumes in California in 2015 primarily reflects recent operational challenges in the Companys Diatomite development program, offset by the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) on November 21, 2014. The Company is pursuing various remedies to address Diatomite wells performance and has temporarily curtailed capital spending in this program. Average daily production volumes in the Hugoton Basin operating area reflect the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation and its affiliates, including its wholly owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (Exxon XTO) on August 15, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Uinta Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2015 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin operating area in 2015 primarily reflects development capital spending. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Permian Basin operating area in 2015 and 2014 reflects the properties relinquished in the two exchanges with ExxonMobil and Exxon XTO and the properties sold to Fleur de Lis Energy, LLC (Permian Basin Assets Sale) on November 14, 2014. The Company had no Permian Basin properties remaining as of December 31, 2014.The increase in average daily production volumes in California and the Uinta Basin operating area in 2014 primarily reflects development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in California in 2014 also reflects the impact of the properties received in the exchange with ExxonMobil on November 21, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2014 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending.36Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedElectricity SalesThe following table sets forth selected electricity data: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Electricity sales (in thousands)$24,544 $40,022 $1,444 $33,992Electricity generation expenses (in thousands)$18,057 $28,171 $1,257 $22,485Electric power produced (Mwh/d)2,012 2,071 2,217 1,950Electric power sold (Mwh/d)1,782 1,882 1,999 1,797Average sales price per Mwh$37.74 $59.80 $48.15 $53.78Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce electricity (MMBtu/d) (1)13,767 14,948 16,142 14,536(1) Estimate is based on the historical allocation of fuel costs to electricity.Electricity sales represent sales to utilities and decreased by approximately $15 million or 39% to approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold during the period.Electricity sales increased by approximately $5 million or 13% to approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $34 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold year over year.Gains (Losses) on Oil and Natural Gas DerivativesGains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $29 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $50 million. Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives decreased primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts. The results for 2014 also include cash settlements of approximately $12 million related to canceled derivatives contracts.Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $5 million and $35 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, and were primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts.The fair value on unsettled derivatives contracts changes as future commodity price expectations change compared to the contract prices on the derivatives. If the expected future commodity prices increase compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, losses are recognized; and if the expected future commodity prices decrease compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, gains are recognized.The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys commodity derivatives. For information about the Companys credit risk related to derivative contracts, see Counterparty Credit Risk under Liquidity and Capital Resources below.Marketing and Other RevenuesMarketing revenues primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize this capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Sales of third party natural 37Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding average daily production, total production, average prices and average costs for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production: Oil (MBbls/d)30.0 36.7 33.1 30.6Natural gas (MMcf/d)92.7 79.3 55.1 51.2NGL (MBbls/d)2.9 1.8 2.3 2.2Total (MBOE/d)48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3 Total production: Oil (MBbls)10,963 13,394 496 10,712Natural gas (MMcf)33,852 28,938 826 17,931NGL (MBbls)1,061 671 34 760Total (MBOE)17,666 18,888 667 14,460 Weighted average prices: (1) Oil (Bbl)$42.27 $85.56 $92.05 $93.96Natural gas (Mcf)$2.66 $4.34 $4.14 $3.79NGL (Bbl)$20.27 $39.96 $36.85 $37.95 Average NYMEX prices: Oil (Bbl)$48.80 $93.00 $98.88 $98.01Natural gas (MMBtu)$2.66 $4.41 $4.38 $3.70 Costs per BOE of production: Lease operating expenses$13.88 $19.30 $23.10 $20.46Transportation expenses$2.95 $2.22 $3.86 $3.23General and administrative expenses$4.87 $5.44 $30.43 $8.51Depreciation, depletion and amortization$14.23 $16.01 $16.26 $19.35Taxes, other than income taxes$4.00 $5.17 $3.19 $3.95(1) Does not include the effect of gains (losses) on derivatives.34Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding production volumes for fields with greater than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Total production: Hugoton Basin Field: Oil (MBbls) * *Natural gas (MMcf)16,831 7,314 * *NGL (MBbls)814 223 * *Total (MBOE)3,619 1,442 * *SJV Diatomite Field: Oil (MBbls)2,939 3,260 103 1,798Natural gas (MMcf) NGL (MBbls) Total (MBOE)2,939 3,260 103 1,798SJV South Midway Field: Oil (MBbls)2,598 * 99 2,431Natural gas (MMcf) * NGL (MBbls) * Total (MBOE)2,598 * 99 2,431Uinta Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 76 1,587Natural gas (MMcf)* * 362 6,243NGL (MBbls)* * 8 181Total (MBOE)* * 144 2,810Midland Basin Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 75 1,847Natural gas (MMcf)* * 129 2,983NGL (MBbls)* * 24 529Total (MBOE)* * 120 2,874*Represented less than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for the year or period indicated.Revenues and OtherOil, Natural Gas and NGL SalesOil, natural gas and NGL sales decreased by approximately $723 million or 56% to approximately $575 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $474 million, $57 million and $21 million, respectively.Average daily production volumes decreased to approximately 48 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014. Lower oil production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $208 million. Higher natural gas and NGL production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $21 million and $16 million, respectively.Oil, natural gas and NGL sales increased by approximately $145 million or 13% to approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $50 million and $1.1 billion for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, due to higher production volumes and 35Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedhigher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Higher natural gas and NGL prices resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $16 million and $1 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower oil prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $111 million in 2014.Average daily production volumes increased to approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately 44 MBOE/d and 41 MBOE/d for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher oil and natural gas production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $205 million and $39 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower NGL production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $5 million in 2014.The following table sets forth average daily production by operating area: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production (MBOE/d): California25.8 26.0 23.0 20.8Hugoton Basin9.9 4.0 Uinta Basin8.0 10.9 9.6 8.0Piceance Basin3.1 1.9 2.1 2.3East Texas1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0Permian Basin 7.2 8.0 8.2 48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3The decrease in average daily production volumes in California in 2015 primarily reflects recent operational challenges in the Companys Diatomite development program, offset by the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) on November 21, 2014. The Company is pursuing various remedies to address Diatomite wells performance and has temporarily curtailed capital spending in this program. Average daily production volumes in the Hugoton Basin operating area reflect the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation and its affiliates, including its wholly owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (Exxon XTO) on August 15, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Uinta Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2015 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin operating area in 2015 primarily reflects development capital spending. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Permian Basin operating area in 2015 and 2014 reflects the properties relinquished in the two exchanges with ExxonMobil and Exxon XTO and the properties sold to Fleur de Lis Energy, LLC (Permian Basin Assets Sale) on November 14, 2014. The Company had no Permian Basin properties remaining as of December 31, 2014.The increase in average daily production volumes in California and the Uinta Basin operating area in 2014 primarily reflects development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in California in 2014 also reflects the impact of the properties received in the exchange with ExxonMobil on November 21, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2014 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending.36Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedElectricity SalesThe following table sets forth selected electricity data: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Electricity sales (in thousands)$24,544 $40,022 $1,444 $33,992Electricity generation expenses (in thousands)$18,057 $28,171 $1,257 $22,485Electric power produced (Mwh/d)2,012 2,071 2,217 1,950Electric power sold (Mwh/d)1,782 1,882 1,999 1,797Average sales price per Mwh$37.74 $59.80 $48.15 $53.78Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce electricity (MMBtu/d) (1)13,767 14,948 16,142 14,536(1) Estimate is based on the historical allocation of fuel costs to electricity.Electricity sales represent sales to utilities and decreased by approximately $15 million or 39% to approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold during the period.Electricity sales increased by approximately $5 million or 13% to approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $34 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold year over year.Gains (Losses) on Oil and Natural Gas DerivativesGains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $29 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $50 million. Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives decreased primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts. The results for 2014 also include cash settlements of approximately $12 million related to canceled derivatives contracts.Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $5 million and $35 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, and were primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts.The fair value on unsettled derivatives contracts changes as future commodity price expectations change compared to the contract prices on the derivatives. If the expected future commodity prices increase compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, losses are recognized; and if the expected future commodity prices decrease compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, gains are recognized.The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys commodity derivatives. For information about the Companys credit risk related to derivative contracts, see Counterparty Credit Risk under Liquidity and Capital Resources below.Marketing and Other RevenuesMarketing revenues primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize this capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Sales of third party natural 37Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedThe following table sets forth information regarding production volumes for fields with greater than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for each of the periods indicated: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Total production: Hugoton Basin Field: Oil (MBbls) * *Natural gas (MMcf)16,831 7,314 * *NGL (MBbls)814 223 * *Total (MBOE)3,619 1,442 * *SJV Diatomite Field: Oil (MBbls)2,939 3,260 103 1,798Natural gas (MMcf) NGL (MBbls) Total (MBOE)2,939 3,260 103 1,798SJV South Midway Field: Oil (MBbls)2,598 * 99 2,431Natural gas (MMcf) * NGL (MBbls) * Total (MBOE)2,598 * 99 2,431Uinta Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 76 1,587Natural gas (MMcf)* * 362 6,243NGL (MBbls)* * 8 181Total (MBOE)* * 144 2,810Midland Basin Field: Oil (MBbls)* * 75 1,847Natural gas (MMcf)* * 129 2,983NGL (MBbls)* * 24 529Total (MBOE)* * 120 2,874*Represented less than 15% of the Companys total proved reserves for the year or period indicated.Revenues and OtherOil, Natural Gas and NGL SalesOil, natural gas and NGL sales decreased by approximately $723 million or 56% to approximately $575 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $474 million, $57 million and $21 million, respectively.Average daily production volumes decreased to approximately 48 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014. Lower oil production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $208 million. Higher natural gas and NGL production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $21 million and $16 million, respectively.Oil, natural gas and NGL sales increased by approximately $145 million or 13% to approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $50 million and $1.1 billion for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, due to higher production volumes and 35Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedhigher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Higher natural gas and NGL prices resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $16 million and $1 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower oil prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $111 million in 2014.Average daily production volumes increased to approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately 44 MBOE/d and 41 MBOE/d for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher oil and natural gas production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $205 million and $39 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower NGL production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $5 million in 2014.The following table sets forth average daily production by operating area: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production (MBOE/d): California25.8 26.0 23.0 20.8Hugoton Basin9.9 4.0 Uinta Basin8.0 10.9 9.6 8.0Piceance Basin3.1 1.9 2.1 2.3East Texas1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0Permian Basin 7.2 8.0 8.2 48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3The decrease in average daily production volumes in California in 2015 primarily reflects recent operational challenges in the Companys Diatomite development program, offset by the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) on November 21, 2014. The Company is pursuing various remedies to address Diatomite wells performance and has temporarily curtailed capital spending in this program. Average daily production volumes in the Hugoton Basin operating area reflect the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation and its affiliates, including its wholly owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (Exxon XTO) on August 15, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Uinta Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2015 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin operating area in 2015 primarily reflects development capital spending. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Permian Basin operating area in 2015 and 2014 reflects the properties relinquished in the two exchanges with ExxonMobil and Exxon XTO and the properties sold to Fleur de Lis Energy, LLC (Permian Basin Assets Sale) on November 14, 2014. The Company had no Permian Basin properties remaining as of December 31, 2014.The increase in average daily production volumes in California and the Uinta Basin operating area in 2014 primarily reflects development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in California in 2014 also reflects the impact of the properties received in the exchange with ExxonMobil on November 21, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2014 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending.36Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedElectricity SalesThe following table sets forth selected electricity data: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Electricity sales (in thousands)$24,544 $40,022 $1,444 $33,992Electricity generation expenses (in thousands)$18,057 $28,171 $1,257 $22,485Electric power produced (Mwh/d)2,012 2,071 2,217 1,950Electric power sold (Mwh/d)1,782 1,882 1,999 1,797Average sales price per Mwh$37.74 $59.80 $48.15 $53.78Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce electricity (MMBtu/d) (1)13,767 14,948 16,142 14,536(1) Estimate is based on the historical allocation of fuel costs to electricity.Electricity sales represent sales to utilities and decreased by approximately $15 million or 39% to approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold during the period.Electricity sales increased by approximately $5 million or 13% to approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $34 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold year over year.Gains (Losses) on Oil and Natural Gas DerivativesGains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $29 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $50 million. Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives decreased primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts. The results for 2014 also include cash settlements of approximately $12 million related to canceled derivatives contracts.Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $5 million and $35 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, and were primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts.The fair value on unsettled derivatives contracts changes as future commodity price expectations change compared to the contract prices on the derivatives. If the expected future commodity prices increase compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, losses are recognized; and if the expected future commodity prices decrease compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, gains are recognized.The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys commodity derivatives. For information about the Companys credit risk related to derivative contracts, see Counterparty Credit Risk under Liquidity and Capital Resources below.Marketing and Other RevenuesMarketing revenues primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize this capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Sales of third party natural 37Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedhigher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Higher natural gas and NGL prices resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $16 million and $1 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower oil prices resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $111 million in 2014.Average daily production volumes increased to approximately 52 MBOE/d for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately 44 MBOE/d and 41 MBOE/d for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher oil and natural gas production volumes resulted in an increase in revenues of approximately $205 million and $39 million, respectively, in 2014. Lower NGL production volumes resulted in a decrease in revenues of approximately $5 million in 2014.The following table sets forth average daily production by operating area: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013Average daily production (MBOE/d): California25.8 26.0 23.0 20.8Hugoton Basin9.9 4.0 Uinta Basin8.0 10.9 9.6 8.0Piceance Basin3.1 1.9 2.1 2.3East Texas1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0Permian Basin 7.2 8.0 8.2 48.4 51.7 44.5 41.3The decrease in average daily production volumes in California in 2015 primarily reflects recent operational challenges in the Companys Diatomite development program, offset by the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) on November 21, 2014. The Company is pursuing various remedies to address Diatomite wells performance and has temporarily curtailed capital spending in this program. Average daily production volumes in the Hugoton Basin operating area reflect the impact of the properties received in the exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation and its affiliates, including its wholly owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (Exxon XTO) on August 15, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Uinta Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2015 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin operating area in 2015 primarily reflects development capital spending. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Permian Basin operating area in 2015 and 2014 reflects the properties relinquished in the two exchanges with ExxonMobil and Exxon XTO and the properties sold to Fleur de Lis Energy, LLC (Permian Basin Assets Sale) on November 14, 2014. The Company had no Permian Basin properties remaining as of December 31, 2014.The increase in average daily production volumes in California and the Uinta Basin operating area in 2014 primarily reflects development capital spending. The increase in average daily production volumes in California in 2014 also reflects the impact of the properties received in the exchange with ExxonMobil on November 21, 2014. The decrease in average daily production volumes in the Piceance Basin and East Texas operating areas in 2014 primarily reflects the effects of production declines due to reduced development capital spending.36Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedElectricity SalesThe following table sets forth selected electricity data: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Electricity sales (in thousands)$24,544 $40,022 $1,444 $33,992Electricity generation expenses (in thousands)$18,057 $28,171 $1,257 $22,485Electric power produced (Mwh/d)2,012 2,071 2,217 1,950Electric power sold (Mwh/d)1,782 1,882 1,999 1,797Average sales price per Mwh$37.74 $59.80 $48.15 $53.78Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce electricity (MMBtu/d) (1)13,767 14,948 16,142 14,536(1) Estimate is based on the historical allocation of fuel costs to electricity.Electricity sales represent sales to utilities and decreased by approximately $15 million or 39% to approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold during the period.Electricity sales increased by approximately $5 million or 13% to approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $34 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold year over year.Gains (Losses) on Oil and Natural Gas DerivativesGains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $29 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $50 million. Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives decreased primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts. The results for 2014 also include cash settlements of approximately $12 million related to canceled derivatives contracts.Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $5 million and $35 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, and were primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts.The fair value on unsettled derivatives contracts changes as future commodity price expectations change compared to the contract prices on the derivatives. If the expected future commodity prices increase compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, losses are recognized; and if the expected future commodity prices decrease compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, gains are recognized.The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys commodity derivatives. For information about the Companys credit risk related to derivative contracts, see Counterparty Credit Risk under Liquidity and Capital Resources below.Marketing and Other RevenuesMarketing revenues primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize this capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Sales of third party natural 37Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedElectricity SalesThe following table sets forth selected electricity data: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Electricity sales (in thousands)$24,544 $40,022 $1,444 $33,992Electricity generation expenses (in thousands)$18,057 $28,171 $1,257 $22,485Electric power produced (Mwh/d)2,012 2,071 2,217 1,950Electric power sold (Mwh/d)1,782 1,882 1,999 1,797Average sales price per Mwh$37.74 $59.80 $48.15 $53.78Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce electricity (MMBtu/d) (1)13,767 14,948 16,142 14,536(1) Estimate is based on the historical allocation of fuel costs to electricity.Electricity sales represent sales to utilities and decreased by approximately $15 million or 39% to approximately $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold during the period.Electricity sales increased by approximately $5 million or 13% to approximately $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $34 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the average sales price of electricity and electric power sold year over year.Gains (Losses) on Oil and Natural Gas DerivativesGains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $29 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $50 million. Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives decreased primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts. The results for 2014 also include cash settlements of approximately $12 million related to canceled derivatives contracts.Gains on oil and natural gas derivatives were approximately $5 million and $35 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, and were primarily due to changes in fair value of the derivative contracts.The fair value on unsettled derivatives contracts changes as future commodity price expectations change compared to the contract prices on the derivatives. If the expected future commodity prices increase compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, losses are recognized; and if the expected future commodity prices decrease compared to the contract prices on the derivatives, gains are recognized.The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys commodity derivatives. For information about the Companys credit risk related to derivative contracts, see Counterparty Credit Risk under Liquidity and Capital Resources below.Marketing and Other RevenuesMarketing revenues primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize this capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Sales of third party natural 37Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedgas are recorded as marketing revenues. Marketing and other revenues decreased by approximately $1 million or 8% to approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing revenues principally due to a decrease in natural gas prices partially offset by higher helium sales revenue in the Hugoton Basin.Marketing and other revenues increased by approximately $5 million or 53% to $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $399,000 and $9 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to an increase in natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2014.ExpensesLease Operating ExpensesLease operating expenses include expenses such as labor, field office, vehicle, supervision, maintenance, tools and supplies, and workover expenses. Lease operating expenses decreased by approximately $120 million or 33% to approximately $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in steam costs caused by lower prices for natural gas used in steam generation, cost savings initiatives and lower costs as a result of the properties sold and exchanged during the third and fourth quarters of 2014. Lease operating expenses per BOE also decreased to $13.88 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.Lease operating expenses increased by approximately $54 million or 17% to approximately $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $15 million and $296 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Lease operating expenses increased primarily due to an increase in steam costs caused by a higher price and volume of natural gas used in steam generation. Lease operating expenses per BOE decreased to $19.30 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $23.10 per BOE and $20.46 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to higher production volumes.The following table sets forth steam information: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013 Average net volume of steam injected (Bbls/d)279,182 251,726 229,909 201,617Fuel gas cost per MMBtu (including transportation)$2.62 $4.52 $4.58 $3.72Estimated natural gas volumes consumed to produce steam (MMBtu/d)98,979 90,320 82,275 69,792Electricity Generation ExpensesElectricity generation expenses decreased by approximately $10 million or 36% to approximately $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in fuel gas cost partially offset by an increase in fuel gas volumes purchased.Electricity generation expenses increased by approximately $5 million or 19% to approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $1 million and $22 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to increases in fuel gas cost and fuel gas volumes purchased.38Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedTransportation ExpensesTransportation expenses increased by approximately $10 million or 25% to approximately $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to costs associated with Hugoton Basin properties acquired in the exchange with Exxon XTO on August 15, 2014.Transportation expenses decreased by approximately $8 million or 15% to approximately $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $3 million and $47 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily due to favorable marketing contract adjustments partially offset by higher expenses due to increased production volumes in the Uinta Basin.Marketing ExpensesMarketing expenses primarily represent third party activities associated with the Companys long term firm transportation contracts. The Companys current production is insufficient to fully utilize its capacity. To optimize its remaining capacity, the Company utilizes asset management agreements and various other marketing arrangements. Purchases of third party natural gas are recorded as marketing expenses. Marketing expenses decreased by approximately $4 million or 53% to approximately $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in natural gas prices.Marketing expenses remained consistent at approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $376,000 and $8 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.General and Administrative ExpensesGeneral and administrative expenses are costs not directly associated with field operations. General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $17 million or 16% to approximately $86 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower costs allocated to the Company by Linn Operating, Inc. (LOI), a subsidiary of LINN Energy, as well as lower transition expenses and professional services expenses. General and administrative expenses per BOE also decreased to $4.87 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $5.44 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014.General and administrative expenses decreased by approximately $40 million or 28% to approximately $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $20 million and $123 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower share based compensation allocated to the Company by LOI.Exploration CostsThe Company recorded no exploration costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, the Company recorded exploration costs of approximately $24 million primarily related to the expiration of certain undeveloped leases in the Permian Basin.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationDepreciation, depletion and amortization decreased by approximately $51 million or 17% to approximately $251 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, from approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates as a result of the impairments recorded in the prior year and the first and third quarters of 2015 as well as lower total production volumes. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE also decreased to $14.23 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2015, from $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the Companys future commitment to capital, the Company reclassified all of its proved undeveloped reserves to unproved as of December 31, 2015, which may impact depletion in the future.Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by approximately $11 million or 4% to approximately $302 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from approximately $11 million and $280 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. Higher total production volumes were the primary reason for the increased expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization per BOE decreased to $16.01 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $16.26 per BOE and $19.35 per BOE for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively, primarily 39Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continueddue to a lower oil and natural gas properties basis as a result of the adjustment made to record the properties at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsThe Company recorded the following noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) associated with proved oil and natural gas properties: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) California operating area$537,511 $22Uinta Basin operating area111,339 253,340East Texas operating area78,437 Piceance Basin operating area55,344 $782,631 $253,362In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties in California.The impairment charges in 2015 were due to a decline in commodity prices, changes in expected capital development and a decline in the Companys estimates of proved reserves. The impairment charges in 2014 were due to a steep decline in commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2014. The Company recorded no impairment charges for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL have continued to be volatile. In the future, if forward price curves continue to decline, the Company may have additional impairments which could have a material impact on its results of operations.Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013(in thousands) Severance taxes$8,248 $25,113 $1,248 $17,514Ad valorem taxes44,980 54,819 882 23,995California carbon allowances17,363 17,751 15,554Other2 25 $70,593 $97,708 $2,130 $57,063Taxes, other than income taxes decreased by approximately $27 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Severance taxes, which are a function of revenues generated from production, decreased primarily due to lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices and lower production volumes. Ad valorem taxes, which are based on the value of reserves and production equipment and vary by location, decreased primarily due to a lower estimated valuation on certain of the Companys properties. California carbon allowances remained virtually unchanged.Taxes, other than income taxes increased by approximately $39 million or 65% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Severance taxes increased primarily due to higher production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices partially offset by lower oil prices. Ad valorem taxes increased primarily due to an 40Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedadjustment to the taxable property basis in California in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. California carbon allowances increased primarily due to an increase in estimated emissions for which credits are needed.(Gains) Losses on Sale of Assets and Other, NetDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded the following net losses on the divestiture and exchanges of properties:Net loss of approximately $50 million, including costs to sell of approximately $2 million, on the Permian Basin Assets Sale;Net loss of approximately $30 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to ExxonMobil for properties in Californias South Belridge Field; andNet loss of approximately $34 million on the noncash exchange of a portion of its Permian Basin properties to Exxon XTO for properties in the Hugoton Basin.See Note 2 for additional details of the divestiture and exchanges of properties.Other Income and (Expenses) Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized$(85,818) $(87,948) $(3,963) $(96,127)Gain on extinguishment of debt11,209 Other, net(3,261) (1,043) (28) 51 $(77,870) $(88,991) $(3,991) $(96,076)Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt during the period, partially offset by lower premium amortization related to the repayment of the June 2014 senior notes in May 2014 and a decrease in capitalized interest. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $11 million as a result of the repurchases of a portion its senior notes.Other income and (expenses) decreased by approximately $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the amortization of premiums related to the Companys debt being recorded at fair value on December 16, 2013, the acquisition date, partially offset by higher outstanding debt during the period.See Debt under Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional details.Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Effective December 16, 2013, the date of the LINN Energy transaction, the Company became a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of the state of Texas. Limited liability companies are subject to Texas margin tax. As such, with the exception of the state of Texas, the Company is not a taxable entity, it does not directly pay federal and state income taxes and recognition has not been given to federal and state income taxes for the operations of the Company. Prior to the LINN Energy transaction, the Company was a Subchapter C corporation subject to federal and state income taxes (see Note 4). The Company recognized an income tax benefit of approximately $68,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to income tax expense of approximately $69,000 and $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit in 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in state income tax expense resulting from changes in the Companys operations compared to 2014. The decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was primarily due to the Companys conversion from a Subchapter C corporation to a limited liability company in connection with the LINN Energy transaction. The Companys effective tax rate was zero for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 41Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued2014, and for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, as the Company is a limited liability company treated as a disregarded entity for federal and state income tax purposes, with the exception of Texas. The Companys effective tax rate for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013 was 41%. The Company recorded no income tax expense (benefit) for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013.Net Income (Loss)Net income decreased by approximately $1.0 billion to a net loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, from net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production revenues and higher impairment charges, partially offset by lower other expenses.Net income decreased by approximately $50 million or 69% to net income of approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from a net loss of approximately $20 million and net income of approximately $93 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges and other expenses, including interest, partially offset by higher production revenues and higher gains on oil and natural gas derivatives.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesThe Companys liquidity outlook has changed since the third quarter of 2015 due to continued low commodity prices. The significant risks and uncertainties described under Executive Overview raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies its audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.The Companys Credit Facility contains the requirement to deliver audited financial statements without a going concern or like qualification or exception. Consequently, as of the filing date, March 28, 2016, the Company is in default under the Credit Facility. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver or other suitable relief from the lenders under the Credit Facility prior to the expiration of the 30 day grace period, an Event of Default will result and the lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Credit Facility could accelerate the outstanding indebtedness, which would make it immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain a waiver from or otherwise reach an agreement with the lenders under the Credit Facility and the indebtedness under the Credit Facility is accelerated, then an Event of Default under the Companys senior notes would occur, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, would, to the extent the applicable lenders so elect, result in the acceleration of those obligations.Furthermore, the Company has decided to defer making an interest payment totaling approximately $18 million due March 15, 2016, on the Companys senior notes due September 2022, which resulted in the Company being in default under these senior notes. The indenture governing the notes permits the Company a 30 day grace period to make the interest payments. If the Company fails to make the interest payments within the grace period, or is otherwise unable to obtain a waiver or suitable relief from the holders of these senior notes, an Event of Default will result and if the trustee or noteholders holding at least 25% in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the notes so elect would accelerate the notes causing them to be immediately due and payable.An Event of Default under any of the indentures governing the senior notes triggers a cross default under the Credit Facility and, as discussed above, if the applicable lenders so elect would result in acceleration under the Credit Facility. In addition, as discussed above, an acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility, if the applicable lenders so elect, would result in cross acceleration under the senior notes.If lenders, and subsequently noteholders, accelerate the Companys outstanding indebtedness, it will become immediately due and payable and the Company will not have sufficient liquidity to repay those amounts. If the Company is unable to reach an agreement with its creditors prior to any of the above described accelerations, the Company could be required to immediately file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.The Company is currently in discussions with various stakeholders and is pursuing or considering a number of actions including: (i) obtaining additional sources of capital from asset sales, private issuances of equity or equity linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination thereof; (ii) pursuing in and out of court restructuring transactions; (iii) obtaining waivers or amendments from its lenders; and (iv) continuing to minimize its capital expenditures, reduce costs and maximize 42Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient liquidity can be obtained from one or more of these actions or that these actions can be consummated within the period needed.The Company has utilized funds from debt offerings, borrowings under its Credit Facility, net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy for capital resources and liquidity. Historically, the primary use of capital has been for the development of oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys total capital expenditures were approximately $152 million. LINN Energy continually evaluates the capital needs of the Company along with those of its other operating areas. LINN Energy establishes a capital plan each calendar year for all of its operations based on development opportunities and the expected cash flow from operations for that year. The capital plan may be revised during the year as a result of drilling outcomes or significant changes in cash flows. To the extent net cash provided by operating activities is higher or lower than currently anticipated, LINN Energy may adjust the Companys capital plan accordingly or adjust borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, as needed. However, at January 31, 2016, the Company had less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility.LINN Energys credit facility contains certain restrictions on its ability to contribute capital or loan funds to Berry. Based on current estimates, including the low commodity price environment, the Company expects to generate a cash shortfall in 2016. Historically, LINN Energy has contributed capital to Berry to fund capital expenditures and other cash shortfalls but LINN Energy is not obligated to continue to provide funding to Berry, nor is LINN Energy a guarantor of any of Berrys indebtedness.In October 2015, the Company entered into an amendment to its Credit Facility. See Note 3 for additional details.The spring 2015 semi annual borrowing base redetermination of the Companys Credit Facility was completed in May 2015, and as a result of lower commodity prices, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.4 billion to $1.2 billion. The fall 2015 semi annual redetermination was completed in October 2015 and the borrowing base under the Credit Facility decreased from $1.2 billion to $900 million. In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in October 2015, Berry repaid $300 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility using the cash received from the settlement of its advance and capital contributions made by LINN Energy. Continued low commodity prices, reductions in the Companys capital budget and the resulting reserve write downs are expected to adversely impact future redeterminations.In connection with the reduction in Berrys borrowing base in May 2015, LINN Energy contributed $250 million to Berry to post as restricted cash with Berrys lenders. As directed by LINN Energy, the $250 million was deposited on Berrys behalf in a security account with the administrative agent subject to a security control agreement. Berrys ability to withdraw funds from this account is subject to a concurrent reduction of the borrowing base under the Credit Facility or lenders consent in connection with a redetermination of such borrowing base. The $250 million may be used to satisfy obligations under the Credit Facility or, subject to restrictions in the indentures governing Berrys senior notes, may be returned to LINN Energy in the future.LINN Energy continually monitors the capital resources available to meet future financial obligations and planned capital expenditures. The Companys future success in growing reserves and production volumes will be highly dependent on the capital resources available and its success in adding reserves from its drilling program. The Companys Credit Facility and indentures governing its senior notes impose certain restrictions on the Companys ability to obtain additional debt financing. The Company does not intend to obtain additional borrowing capacity under its Credit Facility or access the capital markets separately from LINN Energy. The Company intends to finance its operations, including its future capital expenditures, with net cash provided by operating activities and funding from LINN Energy, to the extent LINN Energy elects to provide such funding. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, for additional information about liquidity risks, the risk that the Company may be unable to repay or refinance its existing and future debt as it becomes due, and other risks that could affect the Company. Any cash generated by the Company is currently being used by the Company to fund its activities. To the extent that the Company generates cash in excess of its needs and determines to distribute such amounts to LINN Energy, the indentures governing the Companys senior notes limit the amount it may distribute to LINN Energy to the amount available under a restricted payments basket, and the Company may not distribute any such amounts unless it is permitted by the indentures to incur additional debt pursuant to the consolidated coverage ratio test set forth in the Companys indentures. The Companys restricted payments basket was approximately $529 million at December 31, 2015, and may be increased in accordance with the terms of the Companys indentures by, among other things, 50% of the Companys future net income, reductions in its indebtedness and restricted investments, and future capital contributions.43Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedStatements of Cash FlowsThe following is a comparative cash flow summary: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013 throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Net cash: Provided by operating activities$122,518 $583,480 $56,678 $442,968Provided by (used in) investing activities101,368 (516,222) (17,478) (586,982)Provided by (used in) financing activities(224,449) (116,713) (439,272) 599,687Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(563) $(49,455) $(400,072) $455,673Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was approximately $123 million, compared to approximately $583 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to lower production related revenues principally due to lower commodity prices partially offset by higher cash settlements on derivatives.Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was approximately $583 million, compared to approximately $57 million and $443 million for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively. The increase was primarily due to higher production related revenues principally due to increased oil and natural gas production volumes and higher natural gas and NGL prices, as well as higher cash settlements on derivatives, partially offset by higher expenses.Investing ActivitiesThe following provides a comparative summary of cash flow from investing activities: Successor Predecessor Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013 January 1, 2013throughDecember 16, 2013(in thousands) Cash flow from investing activities: Capital expenditures$(50,374) $(523,889) $(17,478) $(598,512)Settlement of advance to affiliate129,217 Proceeds from sale of properties and equipment and other22,525 7,667 11,530 $101,368 $(516,222) $(17,478) $(586,982)The primary use of cash in investing activities is for the development of the Companys oil and natural gas properties. Capital expenditures decreased in 2015 and 2014 primarily due to lower spending on development activities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, LINN Energy spent approximately $165 million and $58 million, respectively, of capital expenditures in respect of Berrys operations (see Note 1 and Note 12). In addition, on September 30, 2015, LINN Energy repaid in full its remaining advance of approximately $129 million to Berry.Financing ActivitiesCash used in financing activities of approximately $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, was primarily related to the repayment of a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Companys Credit Facility, cash distributions to LINN Energy and repurchases of a portion of its senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions made by LINN Energy. In addition, in May 2015, LINN Energy made a capital contribution of $250 million to Berry which was deposited on Berrys behalf and posted as restricted cash with Berrys lenders in connection with the reduction in its borrowing base (see Note 3).44Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCash used in financing activities of approximately $117 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, was primarily related to cash distributions made to LINN Energy during the year.Cash used in financing activities for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, includes a distribution of $435 million to LINN Energy following the closing of the LINN Energy transaction. Cash provided by financing activities for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, included net borrowings of approximately $610 million under the Companys Credit Facility.DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased at a discount, on the open market and through a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $65 million of its outstanding senior notes including approximately $39 million of its 6.75% senior notes due November 2020 and approximately $26 million of its 6.375% senior notes due September 2022.On May 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the indenture related to its June 2014 Senior Notes, the Company paid in full the remaining outstanding principal amount of approximately $205 million using a cash capital contribution from LINN Energy (see Note 12).In February 2014, in accordance with the indentures related to the senior notes, the Company repurchased through cash tender offers $321,000, $30,000 and $837,000 of its June 2014 Senior Notes, November 2020 Senior Notes and September 2022 Senior Notes, respectively.The Companys Credit Facility had a borrowing base of $900 million, subject to lender commitments, as of January 31, 2016. At January 31, 2016, lender commitments under the facility were also $900 million but there was less than $1 million of available borrowing capacity, including outstanding letters of credit. For additional information related to the Companys outstanding debt, see Note 3.Financial CovenantsThe Credit Facility, as amended in October 2015, contains requirements and financial covenants, among others, to maintain: 1) a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAX to Interest Expense (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Interest Coverage Ratio) for the preceding four quarters of greater than 2.5 to 1.0 through September 30, 2015, 2.0 to 1.0 currently, 2.25 to 1.0 from March 31, 2017 through June 30, 2017, and returning to 2.5 to 1.0 thereafter, and 2) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (as each term is defined in the Credit Facility) (Current Ratio) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of greater than 1.0 to 1.0. The Interest Coverage Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys ability to make interest payments on its outstanding indebtedness and the Current Ratio is intended as a measure of the Companys solvency. The Company is required to demonstrate compliance with each of these ratios on a quarterly basis. The following represents the calculations of the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Current Ratio as presented to the lenders under the Credit Facility: At or for the Quarter Ended Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2015 June 30, 2015 September 30, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Interest Coverage Ratio1.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 2.0Current Ratio (1)0.6 0.5 2.0 0.4 0.4Current Ratio (consolidated) (1)3.2 2.9 2.6 1.7 1.7(1) The Credit Facility allows Berry to demonstrate its compliance with the Current Ratio financial covenant on a consolidated basis with LINN Energy for up to three quarters of each calendar year.The Company has included disclosure of the Interest Coverage Ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, and the Current Ratio as of December 31, 2015, to demonstrate its compliance for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, as well as the Interest Coverage Ratio for each of the preceding four quarters on an individual basis (rather than on a last twelve months basis) and the Current Ratio as of the end of each of the preceding four quarters to provide investors with trend information about the Companys ongoing compliance with these financial covenants. If the Company fails to demonstrate 45Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedcompliance with either or both of the Interest Coverage Ratio or the Current Ratio as of the end of the quarter and such failure continues beyond applicable cure periods, an event of default would occur and the Company would be unable to make additional borrowings and outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.See Going Concern Uncertainty above under Executive Overview for information about the impact to the Companys compliance with its covenants resulting from the auditors opinion issued in connection with the financial statements that includes a going concern explanation.ContingenciesSee Item 3. Legal Proceedings for information regarding legal proceedings that the Company is party to and any contingencies related to these legal proceedings.Commitments and Contractual ObligationsThe following is a summary of the Companys commitments and contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015: Payments DueContractual Obligations Total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond (in thousands)Debt obligations: Credit Facility (1) $873,175 $873,175 $ $ $Senior notes 833,800 261,100 572,700Interest (2) 433,647 81,814 163,628 115,186 73,019Operating lease obligations: Office, property and equipment leases 9,377 3,710 3,513 2,154 Other: Commodity derivatives 2,241 2,241 Asset retirement obligations 137,563 2,548 5,227 8,713 121,075Firm natural gas transportation contracts (3) 146,981 33,446 57,389 41,651 14,495Other 2,442 2,442 $2,439,226 $999,376 $229,757 $428,804 $781,289(1) Due to existing and anticipated covenant violations, the Companys Credit Facility was classified as current at December 31, 2015.(2) Represents interest on the Credit Facility computed at 3.17% through contractual maturity in April 2019. Interest on the November 2020 senior notes and September 2022 senior notes computed at fixed rates of 6.75% and 6.375%, respectively.(3) The Company enters into certain firm commitments to transport natural gas production to market and to transport natural gas for use in the Companys cogeneration and conventional steam generation facilities. The remaining terms of these contracts range from approximately two to eight years and require a minimum monthly charge regardless of whether the contracted capacity is used or not.Counterparty Credit RiskThe Company accounts for its commodity derivatives at fair value. The Companys counterparties are current participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility or were participants or affiliates of participants in its Credit Facility at the time it originally entered into the derivatives. The Credit Facility is secured by the Companys oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; therefore, the Company is not required to post any collateral. The Company does not receive collateral from its counterparties. The Company minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by: (i) limiting its exposure to any single counterparty; (ii) entering into derivative instruments only with counterparties that meet the Companys minimum credit quality standard, or have a guarantee from an affiliate that meets the Companys minimum credit quality standard; and (iii) monitoring the creditworthiness of the Companys counterparties on an ongoing basis. In accordance with the Companys standard practice, its commodity derivatives are subject to counterparty netting under agreements governing such derivatives and therefore the risk of loss due to counterparty nonperformance is somewhat mitigated.46Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based on the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates and assumptions are adjusted when facts and circumstances dictate. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.Below are expanded discussions of the Companys more significant accounting policies, estimates and judgments, i.e., those that reflect more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its financial statements. See Note 1 for details about additional accounting policies and estimates made by Company management.Recently Issued Accounting StandardsFor a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1.Oil and Natural Gas ReservesProved reserves are based on the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The independent engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, prepared a reserve and economic evaluation of all of the Company properties on a well by well basis as of December 31, 2015, and the reserve estimates reported herein were prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by LINN Energys senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by its Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the Companys depletion and impairment calculations. As a result, adjustments to depletion and impairment are made concurrently with changes to reserve estimates. The process performed by the independent engineers to prepare reserve amounts included their estimation of reserve quantities, future production rates, future net revenue and the present value of such future net revenue, based in part on data provided by the Company. The estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years.The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. In addition, reserve estimates are a function of many assumptions, all of which could deviate significantly from actual results. As such, reserve estimates may materially vary from the ultimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL eventually recovered. For additional information regarding estimates of reserves, including the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Data (Unaudited) in 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continuedreserves. The Company capitalizes interest on borrowed funds related to its share of costs associated with the drilling and completion of new oil and natural gas wells. Interest is capitalized only during the periods in which these assets are brought to their intended use. The Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $2 million, $6 million, $41,000 and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, and for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, respectively.The Company evaluates the impairment of its proved oil and natural gas properties on a field by field basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying values of proved properties are reduced to fair value when the expected undiscounted future cash flows of proved and risk adjusted probable and possible reserves are less than net book value. The fair values of proved properties are measured using valuation techniques consistent with the income approach, converting future cash flows to a single discounted amount. Significant inputs used to determine the fair values of proved properties include estimates of: (i) reserves; (ii) future operating and development costs; (iii) future commodity prices; and (iv) a market based weighted average cost of capital rate. These inputs require significant judgments and estimates by the Companys management at the time of the valuation and are the most sensitive and subject to change. The underlying commodity prices embedded in the Companys estimated cash flows are the product of a process that begins with New York Mercantile Exchange forward curve pricing, adjusted for estimated location and quality differentials, as well as other factors that Company management believes will impact realizable prices.Based on the analysis described above, for the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $783 million and $253 million, respectively, associated with proved oil and natural gas properties. The carrying values of the impaired proved properties were reduced to fair value, estimated using inputs characteristic of a Level 3 fair value measurement. The impairment charges are included in impairment of long lived assets on the statements of operations. The Company recorded no impairment charges for proved properties for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Unproved PropertiesCosts related to unproved properties include costs incurred to acquire unproved reserves. Because these reserves do not meet the definition of proved reserves, the related costs are not classified as proved properties. Unproved leasehold costs are capitalized and amortized on a composite basis if individually insignificant, based on past success, experience and average lease term lives. Individually significant leases are reclassified to proved properties if successful and expensed on a lease by lease basis if unsuccessful or the lease term expires. Unamortized leasehold costs related to successful exploratory drilling are reclassified to proved properties and depleted on a unit of production basis. The Company assesses unproved properties for impairment quarterly on the basis of its experience in similar situations and other factors such as the primary lease terms of the properties, the average holding period of unproved properties and the relative proportion of such properties on which proved reserves have been found in the past.Based primarily on a decline in commodity prices and changes in expected capital development, for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges (before and after tax) of approximately $71 million associated with unproved oil and natural gas properties. The carrying values of the impaired unproved properties were reduced to fair value, estimated using inputs characteristic of a Level 3 fair value measurement. The impairment charges are included in impairment of long lived assets on the statement of operations. The Company recorded no impairment charges for unproved properties for the year ended December 31, 2014, or for the periods from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013, or January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013.Exploration CostsGeological and geophysical costs, delay rentals, amortization and impairment of unproved leasehold costs and costs to drill exploratory wells that do not find proved reserves are expensed as exploration costs. The costs of any exploratory wells are carried as an asset if the well finds a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its capitalization as a producing well and as long as the Company is making sufficient progress towards assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The Company recorded no exploration costs during the years ended December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, or for the period from December 17, 2013 through December 31, 2013. The Company recorded noncash leasehold impairment expenses related to unproved properties of approximately $16 million for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 16, 2013, which is included in exploration costs on the statement of operations.48Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedRevenue RecognitionSales of oil, natural gas and NGL are recognized when the product has been delivered to a custody transfer point, persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the rights and responsibility of ownership pass to the purchaser upon delivery, collection of revenue from the sale is reasonably assured and the sales price is fixed or determinable. In addition, the Company engages in the purchase, gathering and transportation of third party natural gas and subsequently markets such natural gas to independent purchasers under separate arrangements. As such, the Company separately reports third party marketing revenues and marketing expenses.Derivative InstrumentsHistorically, the Company has hedged a portion of its forecasted production to reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. The Company also, from time to time, has entered into derivative contracts for a portion of its natural gas consumption. The current direct NGL hedging market is constrained in terms of price, volume, duration and number of counterparties, which limits the Companys ability to effectively hedge its NGL production. The Company has also hedged its exposure to natural gas differentials in certain operating areas but does not currently hedge exposure to oil differentials. By removing a portion of the price volatility associated with future production, the Company expects to mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of variability in net cash provided by operating activities due to fluctuations in commodity prices.The Company has historically entered into commodity hedging transactions primarily in the form of swap contracts, collars and three way collars, and may enter into put option contracts in the future. The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes.A swap contract specifies a fixed price that the Company will receive from the counterparty as compared to floating market prices, and on the settlement date the Company will receive or pay the difference between the swap price and the market price. Collar contracts specify floor and ceiling prices to be received as compared to floating market prices. Three way collar contracts combine a short put (the lower price), a long put (the middle price) and a short call (the higher price) to provide a higher ceiling price as compared to a regular collar and limit downside risk to the market price plus the difference between the middle price and the lower price if the market price drops below the lower price. A put option requires the Company to pay the counterparty a premium equal to the fair value of the option at the purchase date and receive from the counterparty the excess, if any, of the fixed price floor over the market price at the settlement date.Derivative instruments are recorded at fair value and included on the balance sheets as assets or liabilities. The Company did not designate any of its contracts as cash flow hedges; therefore, the changes in fair value of these instruments are recorded in current earnings. The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. Inputs to the pricing models include publicly available prices and forward price curves generated from a compilation of data gathered from third parties. Company management validates the data provided by third parties by understanding the pricing models used, obtaining market values from other pricing sources, analyzing pricing data in certain situations and confirming that those instruments trade in active markets. Assumed credit risk adjustments, based on published credit ratings, public bond yield spreads and credit default swap spreads are applied to the Companys commodity derivatives. See Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys derivative financial instruments.Acquisition AccountingThe Company accounts for business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting (see Note 2). Accordingly, the Company recognizes amounts for identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed equal to their estimated acquisition date fair values. Transaction and integration costs associated with business combinations are expensed as incurred. Any excess of the acquisition price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill while any excess of the estimated fair value of net assets acquired over the acquisition price is recorded in current earnings as a gain.The Company makes various assumptions in estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. As fair value is a market based measurement, it is determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use. The most significant assumptions relate to the estimated fair values of proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties. The fair values of these properties are measured using valuation techniques that convert future cash flows to a single discounted amount. Significant inputs to the valuation include estimates of: (i) reserves; (ii) future operating and development costs; 49Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued(iii) future commodity prices; and (iv) a market based weighted average cost of capital rate. The market based weighted average cost of capital rate is subjected to additional project specific risking factors. To compensate for the inherent risk of estimating and valuing unproved properties, the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves are reduced by additional risk weighting factors. In addition, when appropriate, the Company reviews comparable purchases and sales of oil and natural gas properties within the same regions, and uses that data as a proxy for fair market value; i.e., the amount a willing buyer and seller would enter into in exchange for such properties.While the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have no effect on cash flow, they can have an effect on future results of operations. Generally, higher fair values assigned to oil and natural gas properties result in higher future depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, which results in decreased future net income. Also, a higher fair value assigned to oil and natural gas properties, based on higher future estimates of commodity prices, could increase the likelihood of impairment in the event of lower commodity prices or higher operating costs than those originally used to determine fair value. The recording of impairment expense has no effect on cash flow but results in a decrease in net income for the period in which the impairment is recorded.Electricity Cost AllocationThe Companys investment in its cogeneration facilities has been for the express purpose of lowering steam costs in its heavy oil operations in California and securing operating control of the respective steam generation. Such cogeneration operations produce electricity and steam and use natural gas as fuel. The Company allocates steam costs to lease operating expenses based on the conversion efficiency (of fuel to electricity and steam) of the cogeneration facilities plus certain direct costs in producing steam. A portion of the costs of operating the cogeneration facilities is also allocated to depreciation, depletion and amortization.Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskThe Companys primary market risks are attributable to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates. These risks can affect the Companys business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See below for quantitative and qualitative information about these risks. The following should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The reference to a Note herein refers to the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Commodity Price RiskThe Companys most significant market risk relates to prices of oil, natural gas and NGL. The Company expects commodity prices to remain volatile and unpredictable. As commodity prices decline or rise significantly, revenues and cash flows are likewise affected. In addition, future declines in commodity prices may result in noncash write downs of the Companys carrying amounts of its assets.Historically, the Company has hedged a portion of its forecasted production to reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. The Company also, from time to time, has entered into derivative contracts for a portion of its natural gas consumption. The current direct NGL hedging market is constrained in terms of price, volume, duration and number of counterparties, which limits the Companys ability to effectively hedge its NGL production. The Company has also hedged its exposure to natural gas differentials in certain operating areas but does not currently hedge exposure to oil differentials. By removing a portion of the price volatility associated with future production, the Company expects to mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of variability in net cash provided by operating activities due to fluctuations in commodity prices.The Company has historically entered into commodity hedging transactions primarily in the form of swap contracts, collars and three way collars, and may enter into put option contracts in the future. The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes.The appropriate level of production to be hedged is an ongoing consideration and is based on a variety of factors, including current and future expected commodity market prices, cost and availability of put option contracts, the level of LINN Energys acquisition activity, the Companys overall risk profile, including leverage and size and scale considerations, and an actively traded market for hedging transactions, including counterparty willingness to enter into derivative contracts with the Company. In addition, when commodity prices are depressed and forward commodity price curves are flat or in backwardation, the Company may determine that the benefit of hedging its anticipated production at these levels is 50Table of ContentsItem 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Continuedoutweighed by its resultant inability to obtain higher revenues for its production if commodity prices recover during the duration of the contracts. As a result, the appropriate percentage of production volumes to be hedged may change over time.As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 44,652 MMMBtu of natural gas basis swaps for 2016, and no derivative contracts for years subsequent to 2016. See Note 7 for details about the Companys derivative instruments.Interest Rate RiskAt December 31, 2015, the Company had debt outstanding under its credit facility of approximately $873 million which incurred interest at floating rates (see Note 3). A 1% increase in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) would result in an estimated $9 million increase in annual interest expense.At December 31, 2014, the Company had debt outstanding under its credit facility of approximately $1.2 billion which incurred interest at floating rates. A 1% increase in the LIBOR would result in an estimated $12 million increase in annual interest expense.51Table of Contents
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ContinuedRevenue RecognitionSales of oil, natural gas and NGL are recognized when the product has been delivered to a custody transfer point, persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the rights and responsibility of ownership pass to the purchaser upon delivery, collection of revenue from the sale is reasonably assured and the sales price is fixed or determinable. In addition, the Company engages in the purchase, gathering and transportation of third party natural gas and subsequently markets such natural gas to independent purchasers under separate arrangements. As such, the Company separately reports third party marketing revenues and marketing expenses.Derivative InstrumentsHistorically, the Company has hedged a portion of its forecasted production to reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. The Company also, from time to time, has entered into derivative contracts for a portion of its natural gas consumption. The current direct NGL hedging market is constrained in terms of price, volume, duration and number of counterparties, which limits the Companys ability to effectively hedge its NGL production. The Company has also hedged its exposure to natural gas differentials in certain operating areas but does not currently hedge exposure to oil differentials. By removing a portion of the price volatility associated with future production, the Company expects to mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of variability in net cash provided by operating activities due to fluctuations in commodity prices.The Company has historically entered into commodity hedging transactions primarily in the form of swap contracts, collars and three way collars, and may enter into put option contracts in the future. The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes.A swap contract specifies a fixed price that the Company will receive from the counterparty as compared to floating market prices, and on the settlement date the Company will receive or pay the difference between the swap price and the market price. Collar contracts specify floor and ceiling prices to be received as compared to floating market prices. Three way collar contracts combine a short put (the lower price), a long put (the middle price) and a short call (the higher price) to provide a higher ceiling price as compared to a regular collar and limit downside risk to the market price plus the difference between the middle price and the lower price if the market price drops below the lower price. A put option requires the Company to pay the counterparty a premium equal to the fair value of the option at the purchase date and receive from the counterparty the excess, if any, of the fixed price floor over the market price at the settlement date.Derivative instruments are recorded at fair value and included on the balance sheets as assets or liabilities. The Company did not designate any of its contracts as cash flow hedges; therefore, the changes in fair value of these instruments are recorded in current earnings. The Company determines the fair value of its oil and natural gas derivatives utilizing pricing models that use a variety of techniques, including market quotes and pricing analysis. Inputs to the pricing models include publicly available prices and forward price curves generated from a compilation of data gathered from third parties. Company management validates the data provided by third parties by understanding the pricing models used, obtaining market values from other pricing sources, analyzing pricing data in certain situations and confirming that those instruments trade in active markets. Assumed credit risk adjustments, based on published credit ratings, public bond yield spreads and credit default swap spreads are applied to the Companys commodity derivatives. See Note 7 and Note 8 for additional details about the Companys derivative financial instruments.Acquisition AccountingThe Company accounts for business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting (see Note 2). Accordingly, the Company recognizes amounts for identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed equal to their estimated acquisition date fair values. Transaction and integration costs associated with business combinations are expensed as incurred. Any excess of the acquisition price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill while any excess of the estimated fair value of net assets acquired over the acquisition price is recorded in current earnings as a gain.The Company makes various assumptions in estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. As fair value is a market based measurement, it is determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use. The most significant assumptions relate to the estimated fair values of proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties. The fair values of these properties are measured using valuation techniques that convert future cash flows to a single discounted amount. Significant inputs to the valuation include estimates of: (i) reserves; (ii) future operating and development costs; 49Table of ContentsItem 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued(iii) future commodity prices; and (iv) a market based weighted average cost of capital rate. The market based weighted average cost of capital rate is subjected to additional project specific risking factors. To compensate for the inherent risk of estimating and valuing unproved properties, the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves are reduced by additional risk weighting factors. In addition, when appropriate, the Company reviews comparable purchases and sales of oil and natural gas properties within the same regions, and uses that data as a proxy for fair market value; i.e., the amount a willing buyer and seller would enter into in exchange for such properties.While the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have no effect on cash flow, they can have an effect on future results of operations. Generally, higher fair values assigned to oil and natural gas properties result in higher future depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, which results in decreased future net income. Also, a higher fair value assigned to oil and natural gas properties, based on higher future estimates of commodity prices, could increase the likelihood of impairment in the event of lower commodity prices or higher operating costs than those originally used to determine fair value. The recording of impairment expense has no effect on cash flow but results in a decrease in net income for the period in which the impairment is recorded.Electricity Cost AllocationThe Companys investment in its cogeneration facilities has been for the express purpose of lowering steam costs in its heavy oil operations in California and securing operating control of the respective steam generation. Such cogeneration operations produce electricity and steam and use natural gas as fuel. The Company allocates steam costs to lease operating expenses based on the conversion efficiency (of fuel to electricity and steam) of the cogeneration facilities plus certain direct costs in producing steam. A portion of the costs of operating the cogeneration facilities is also allocated to depreciation, depletion and amortization.Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskThe Companys primary market risks are attributable to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates. These risks can affect the Companys business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See below for quantitative and qualitative information about these risks. The following should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The reference to a Note herein refers to the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Commodity Price RiskThe Companys most significant market risk relates to prices of oil, natural gas and NGL. The Company expects commodity prices to remain volatile and unpredictable. As commodity prices decline or rise significantly, revenues and cash flows are likewise affected. In addition, future declines in commodity prices may result in noncash write downs of the Companys carrying amounts of its assets.Historically, the Company has hedged a portion of its forecasted production to reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. The Company also, from time to time, has entered into derivative contracts for a portion of its natural gas consumption. The current direct NGL hedging market is constrained in terms of price, volume, duration and number of counterparties, which limits the Companys ability to effectively hedge its NGL production. The Company has also hedged its exposure to natural gas differentials in certain operating areas but does not currently hedge exposure to oil differentials. By removing a portion of the price volatility associated with future production, the Company expects to mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of variability in net cash provided by operating activities due to fluctuations in commodity prices.The Company has historically entered into commodity hedging transactions primarily in the form of swap contracts, collars and three way collars, and may enter into put option contracts in the future. The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes.The appropriate level of production to be hedged is an ongoing consideration and is based on a variety of factors, including current and future expected commodity market prices, cost and availability of put option contracts, the level of LINN Energys acquisition activity, the Companys overall risk profile, including leverage and size and scale considerations, and an actively traded market for hedging transactions, including counterparty willingness to enter into derivative contracts with the Company. In addition, when commodity prices are depressed and forward commodity price curves are flat or in backwardation, the Company may determine that the benefit of hedging its anticipated production at these levels is 50Table of ContentsItem 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Continuedoutweighed by its resultant inability to obtain higher revenues for its production if commodity prices recover during the duration of the contracts. As a result, the appropriate percentage of production volumes to be hedged may change over time.As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 44,652 MMMBtu of natural gas basis swaps for 2016, and no derivative contracts for years subsequent to 2016. See Note 7 for details about the Companys derivative instruments.Interest Rate RiskAt December 31, 2015, the Company had debt outstanding under its credit facility of approximately $873 million which incurred interest at floating rates (see Note 3). A 1% increase in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) would result in an estimated $9 million increase in annual interest expense.At December 31, 2014, the Company had debt outstanding under its credit facility of approximately $1.2 billion which incurred interest at floating rates. A 1% increase in the LIBOR would result in an estimated $12 million increase in annual interest expense.51Table of Contents
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Continued(iii) future commodity prices; and (iv) a market based weighted average cost of capital rate. The market based weighted average cost of capital rate is subjected to additional project specific risking factors. To compensate for the inherent risk of estimating and valuing unproved properties, the discounted future net revenues of probable and possible reserves are reduced by additional risk weighting factors. In addition, when appropriate, the Company reviews comparable purchases and sales of oil and natural gas properties within the same regions, and uses that data as a proxy for fair market value; i.e., the amount a willing buyer and seller would enter into in exchange for such properties.While the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have no effect on cash flow, they can have an effect on future results of operations. Generally, higher fair values assigned to oil and natural gas properties result in higher future depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, which results in decreased future net income. Also, a higher fair value assigned to oil and natural gas properties, based on higher future estimates of commodity prices, could increase the likelihood of impairment in the event of lower commodity prices or higher operating costs than those originally used to determine fair value. The recording of impairment expense has no effect on cash flow but results in a decrease in net income for the period in which the impairment is recorded.Electricity Cost AllocationThe Companys investment in its cogeneration facilities has been for the express purpose of lowering steam costs in its heavy oil operations in California and securing operating control of the respective steam generation. Such cogeneration operations produce electricity and steam and use natural gas as fuel. The Company allocates steam costs to lease operating expenses based on the conversion efficiency (of fuel to electricity and steam) of the cogeneration facilities plus certain direct costs in producing steam. A portion of the costs of operating the cogeneration facilities is also allocated to depreciation, depletion and amortization.Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskThe Companys primary market risks are attributable to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates. These risks can affect the Companys business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See below for quantitative and qualitative information about these risks. The following should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The reference to a Note herein refers to the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Commodity Price RiskThe Companys most significant market risk relates to prices of oil, natural gas and NGL. The Company expects commodity prices to remain volatile and unpredictable. As commodity prices decline or rise significantly, revenues and cash flows are likewise affected. In addition, future declines in commodity prices may result in noncash write downs of the Companys carrying amounts of its assets.Historically, the Company has hedged a portion of its forecasted production to reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. The Company also, from time to time, has entered into derivative contracts for a portion of its natural gas consumption. The current direct NGL hedging market is constrained in terms of price, volume, duration and number of counterparties, which limits the Companys ability to effectively hedge its NGL production. The Company has also hedged its exposure to natural gas differentials in certain operating areas but does not currently hedge exposure to oil differentials. By removing a portion of the price volatility associated with future production, the Company expects to mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of variability in net cash provided by operating activities due to fluctuations in commodity prices.The Company has historically entered into commodity hedging transactions primarily in the form of swap contracts, collars and three way collars, and may enter into put option contracts in the future. The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes.The appropriate level of production to be hedged is an ongoing consideration and is based on a variety of factors, including current and future expected commodity market prices, cost and availability of put option contracts, the level of LINN Energys acquisition activity, the Companys overall risk profile, including leverage and size and scale considerations, and an actively traded market for hedging transactions, including counterparty willingness to enter into derivative contracts with the Company. In addition, when commodity prices are depressed and forward commodity price curves are flat or in backwardation, the Company may determine that the benefit of hedging its anticipated production at these levels is 50Table of ContentsItem 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Continuedoutweighed by its resultant inability to obtain higher revenues for its production if commodity prices recover during the duration of the contracts. As a result, the appropriate percentage of production volumes to be hedged may change over time.As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 44,652 MMMBtu of natural gas basis swaps for 2016, and no derivative contracts for years subsequent to 2016. See Note 7 for details about the Companys derivative instruments.Interest Rate RiskAt December 31, 2015, the Company had debt outstanding under its credit facility of approximately $873 million which incurred interest at floating rates (see Note 3). A 1% increase in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) would result in an estimated $9 million increase in annual interest expense.At December 31, 2014, the Company had debt outstanding under its credit facility of approximately $1.2 billion which incurred interest at floating rates. A 1% increase in the LIBOR would result in an estimated $12 million increase in annual interest expense.51Table of Contents
</SECTION>
<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: SANDISK CORP
CIK: 0001000180
SIC: 3572
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070228
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Years Ended % of % of % of December 31, 2006 Revenue January 1, 2006 Revenue January 2, 2005 Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) Product revenues $ 2,926,472 89.8 % $ 2,066,607 89.6 % $ 1,602,836 90.2 % License and royalty revenues 331,053 10.2 % 239,462 10.4 % 174,219 9.8 % Total revenues 3,257,525 100.0 % 2,306,069 100.0 % 1,777,055 100.0 % Cost of product revenues 2,018,052 62.0 % 1,333,335 57.8 % 1,091,350 61.4 % Gross profit 1,239,473 38.0 % 972,734 42.2 % 685,705 38.6 % Operating expenses Research and development 306,866 9.4 % 194,810 8.5 % 124,994 7.0 % Sales and marketing 203,406 6.3 % 122,232 5.3 % 91,296 5.1 % General and administrative 159,835 4.9 % 79,110 3.4 % 50,824 2.9 % Write off of acquired in process technology 225,600 6.9 % Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets 17,432 0.5 % Total operating expenses 913,139 28.0 % 396,152 17.2 % 267,114 15.0 % Operating income 326,334 10.0 % 576,582 25.0 % 418,591 23.6 % Other income, net 104,374 3.2 % 36,725 1.6 % 4,609 0.2 % Income before taxes 430,708 13.2 % 613,307 26.6 % 423,200 23.8 % Provision for income taxes 230,193 7.1 % 226,923 9.8 % 156,584 8.8 % Minority interest 1,619 Net income $ 198,896 6.1 % $ 386,384 16.8 % $ 266,616 15.0 % General We are one of the worlds largest suppliers of NAND flash based data storage products for the consumer, mobile communications, and industrial markets. Our mission is to be the preferred choice of personal storage solutions for the worldwide digital economy. We seek to achieve our mission by developing leading technologies and innovative products and delivering our products through both OEM and retail channels. We design, develop, market and manufacture products and solutions in a variety of form factors using our flash memory, controller, and firmware technologies. Our products are used in a wide range of consumer electronics devices such as digital cameras, mobile phones, USB drives, gaming consoles, MP3 players and other digital devices. Our products are also embedded in a variety of systems for the enterprise, industrial, military and other markets. Flash storage technology allows data to be stored in a low power consumption, durable and compact format that retains the data after the power has been turned off. As a supplier to this industry, our results are primarily driven by worldwide demand for flash storage devices, which in turn depends on end user demand for electronic products. We believe the market for flash storage has price elasticity of demand. We expect that as we reduce the price of our flash devices, consumers will demand an increasing number of megabytes of memory. In order to profitably capitalize on price elasticity of demand in the market for flash storage products, we must reduce our cost per megabyte at a rate similar to the change in selling price per megabyte to the consumer. We seek to achieve these cost reductions through technology improvements primarily focused on increasing the amount of memory stored in a given area of silicon. In January 2006, we acquired Matrix, a designer and developer of three dimensional (3 D) integrated circuits. Matrix 3 D Memory is used for one time programmable storage applications that complement our existing flash storage memory products. 38 Table of Contents Matrix 3 D Memory is used for storage applications that do not require rewriteable memory and where low cost is the paramount consideration, such as video games, music and other content, or for archiving. The acquisition of Matrix resulted in a $39.6 million write off of in process acquired technology during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. In May 2006, we issued and sold $1.15 billion in aggregate principal amount of 1% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the 1% Notes due 2013). The 1% Notes due 2013 were issued at par and pay interest at a rate of 1% per annum. The 1% Notes due 2013 may be converted into our common stock, under certain circumstances, based on an initial conversion rate of 12.1426 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $82.36 per share). The conversion price will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. The net proceeds to us from the offering of the 1% Notes due 2013 were $1.13 billion. Concurrently with the issuance of the 1% Notes due 2013, we purchased a convertible bond hedge and sold warrants. The separate convertible bond hedge and warrant transactions are structured to reduce the potential future economic dilution associated with the conversion of the 1% Notes due 2013 and to increase the initial conversion price to $95.03 per share. Net proceeds from this offering will be used for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures for new and existing manufacturing facilities, development of new technologies, general working capital and other non manufacturing capital expenditures. The net proceeds may also be used to fund strategic investments or acquisitions of products, technologies or complementary businesses or obtain the right or license to use additional technologies. On July 7, 2006, we and Toshiba Corporation, or Toshiba, entered into a business venture, Flash Alliance, to build Fab 4, a new advanced 300 millimeter wafer fabrication facility at Toshibas Yokkaichi, Japan operations, to meet the anticipated growing demand for NAND flash memory in 2008 and beyond. We own 49.9% and Toshiba owns 50.1% of Flash Alliance. Both we and Toshiba will collaborate in the development and manufacture of NAND flash memory products. These NAND flash memory products will be manufactured by Toshiba at Fab 4 using semiconductor manufacturing equipment owned or leased by Flash Alliance. Flash Alliance will purchase wafers from Toshiba at cost and then resell those wafers to us and Toshiba at cost plus a markup. We account for our 49.9% ownership position in Flash Alliance under the equity method of accounting. We are committed to purchase half of Flash Alliances NAND wafer supply. See Toshiba Ventures. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), or SFAS 123(R), Share Based Payments, using the modified prospective transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost recognized on a straight line basis, in the year ended December 31, 2006 included the following: (a) compensation cost based on the grant date fair value related to any share based awards granted through, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, and (b) compensation cost for any share based awards granted on or subsequent to January 2, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). As a result of adopting SFAS 123(R), we recognized share based compensation expense of $100.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, which affected our reported cost of sales, research and development, selling and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, at December 31, 2006, we capitalized to inventory $3.2 million of compensation cost for share based awards that were issued to manufacturing personnel. We calculate this share based compensation expense based on the fair values of the share based compensation awards as estimated using the Black Scholes Merton closed form option valuation model. As of December 31, 2006, total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested share based compensation arrangements already granted under our various plans was $260.1 million, which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 2.7 years. On November 19, 2006, we acquired msystems Ltd., or msystems. msystems designs, develops and markets innovative flash data storage solutions for digital consumer electronics markets. msystems primarily targets two digital consumer electronics markets: the mobile phone market and the USB flash drive market. msystems also sells flash data storage products targeted at the embedded systems market. The acquisition of msystems resulted in a $186.0 million write off of in process acquired technology during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. On November 30, 2006, we assumed through our acquisition of msystems, $75.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1% Convertible Notes due 2035, or the 1% Notes due 2035. The 1% Notes due 2035 pay interest at a rate of 1% per annum. The 1% Notes due 2035 may be converted into our common stock, under certain circumstances, based on an initial conversion rate of 26.8302 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $37.27 per share). The conversion price will be subject to adjustment in certain events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. 39 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, among others, those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories and related reserves, investments, income taxes, warranty obligations, stock compensation, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities when those values are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates have historically approximated actual results. However, future results will differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns and Allowances and Sales Incentive Programs. We recognize net revenues when the earnings process is complete, as evidenced by an agreement with the customer, transfer of title and acceptance, if applicable, fixed pricing and reasonable assurance of realization. Sales made to distributors and retailers are generally under agreements allowing price protection and or right of return and, therefore, the sales and related costs of these transactions are deferred until the retailers or distributors sell the merchandise to their end customer, or the rights of return expire. At December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, deferred income, from sales to distributors and retailers was $312.9 million and $139.9 million, respectively. Estimated sales returns are provided for as a reduction to product revenue and deferred revenue and were not material for any period presented in our consolidated financial statements. We record estimated reductions to revenue or to deferred revenue for customer and distributor incentive programs and offerings, including price protection, promotions, co op advertising, and other volume based incentives and expected returns. Additionally, we have incentive programs that require us to estimate, based on historical experience, the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. All sales incentive programs are recorded as an offset to product revenues or deferred revenues. In the past, actual returns and rebates have not been significantly different from our estimates. However, actual returns and rebates in any future period could differ from our estimates, which could impact the net revenue we report. Inventories and Inventory Valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first in, first out) or market. Market value is based upon an estimated average selling price reduced by estimated costs of disposal. The determination of market value involves numerous judgments including estimating average selling prices based upon recent sales volumes, industry trends, existing customer orders, current contract prices, industry analysis of supply and demand and seasonal factors. Should actual market conditions differ from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. The valuation of inventory also requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products within specific time horizons, generally six to twelve months. To the extent our demand forecast for specific products is less than our product on hand and our noncancelable orders, we could be required to record additional inventory reserves, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Accounting for Investments. We evaluate whether entities in which we have invested are variable interest entities within the definition of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R, or FIN 46R, Accounting for Variable Interest Entities. If those entities are variable interest entities, then we determine whether we are the primary beneficiary of that entity by reference to our contractual and business arrangements with respect to residual gains and residual losses on liquidation of that entity. With respect to all equity investments, we review the degree of control that our investment and other arrangements give us over the entity we have invested in. Generally, after considering all factors, if we hold equity interests representing less than 20% of the outstanding voting interests of an entity we invested in, we use the cost method of accounting. If we hold at least 20% but less than a majority of the outstanding voting interests of an entity we invested in, we use the equity method of accounting. We have the financial capability and the intent to hold our loans to the ventures with Toshiba until maturity and accordingly those loans are carried at cost and their value in our financial statements is not adjusted to market value. Changes in our intent could materially impact our financial statements. 40 Table of Contents Deferred Tax Assets. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. We consider historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We carried a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets of $60.1 million and $14.9 million at December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively, based on our view that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to take tax a benefit for certain net operating loss carryforwards, certain capitalized expenses and certain unrealized capital losses on our investments in foundries. Share Based Compensation Employee Incentive Plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plans. Beginning on January 2, 2006, we began accounting for stock awards and ESPP shares under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), or SFAS 123(R), Share Based Payments, which requires the recognition of the fair value of share based compensation. The fair value of stock awards and ESPP shares was estimated using a Black Scholes Merton closed form option valuation model. This model requires the input of assumptions in implementing SFAS 123(R), including expected stock price volatility, expected term and estimated forfeitures of each award. The parameters used in the model are reviewed and adjusted on a quarterly basis. We elected the modified prospective method for adoption of SFAS 123(R). We recognized compensation expense for the fair values of these awards, which have graded vesting, on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of each of these awards, net of estimated forfeitures at a rate of 7.74%. We make quarterly assessments of the adequacy of the APIC credit pool generated by previous share based excess tax benefits to determine if there are any tax deficiencies which require recognition in the condensed consolidated statements of income. Prior to the implementation of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for stock awards and ESPP shares under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and made pro forma footnote disclosures as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, or SFAS 148, Accounting For Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, which amended Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting For Stock Based Compensation. Pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share disclosed in the footnotes to the consolidated condensed financial statements were estimated using a Black Scholes Merton closed form option valuation model to determine the estimated fair value and by attributing such fair value over the requisite service period on a straight line basis for those awards that actually vested. The fair value of restricted stock units was calculated based upon the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Business Combinations. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 141, or SFAS 141, Business Combinations, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and in process research and development based on their estimated fair values. We engage third party appraisal firms to assist management in determining the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such a valuation requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Management makes estimates of fair value based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from product sales, customer relationships and acquired developed technologies and patents, expected costs to develop the in process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed, as well as assumptions about the expected life of the core technology and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations Product Revenues. Percent Percent FY 2006 Change FY 2005 Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Retail $ 1,975.4 22 % $ 1,621.0 31 % $ 1,236.0 OEM 951.0 113 % 445.6 21 % 366.8 Product revenues $ 2,926.4 42 % $ 2,066.6 29 % $ 1,602.8 The increase in our 2006 product revenues was comprised of a 246% increase in the number of megabytes sold, partially offset by a 59% reduction in our average selling price per megabyte. The markets that we sell to have experienced price elasticity of demand. In 2006, as the price per megabyte decreased, the average memory density of our products sold increased by 67%. Our unit sales also increased by 106% with the growth in our unit sales primarily attributable to growth in sales of cards for mobile phones and flash based digital audio players. OEM revenues particularly benefited from higher sales of mobile cards to mobile phone manufacturers, 3 D gaming cards and from our acquisition of msystems, which accounted for an additional $115 million of revenue. Retail revenue growth benefited primarily from higher sales of mobile cards, flash based digital audio players and USB flash drives. We expect to continue to reduce our price per megabyte, including price reductions already initiated in 2007, as a result of competitive pressures, industry supply and demand, as well as technology advances. The increase in our 2005 product revenues consisted of a 166% increase in the number of megabytes sold and partially offset by a 52% reduction in our average selling price per megabyte. In 2005, as the price per megabyte came down, the average memory density of our products sold increased by 115%. Our unit sales also increased by 23% with the growth in our unit sales primarily attributable to growth in the markets for mobile cards for camera phones and music centric phones, USB flash drives and flash based digital audio players. Partially offsetting the 2005 growth in revenues was the fact that fiscal 2005 consisted of 52 weeks as compared to 53 weeks in the prior year. Geographical Product Revenues. FY 2006 FY 2005 FY 2004 Percent Percent Percent Revenue of Total Revenue of Total Revenue of Total (in millions, except percentages) North America $ 1,298.6 44 % $ 1,049.6 51 % $ 768.1 48 % Japan 194.0 7 % 104.4 5 % 165.4 10 % EMEA 728.4 25 % 501.0 24 % 420.6 26 % Other foreign countries 705.4 24 % 411.6 20 % 248.7 16 % Product revenues $ 2,926.4 100 % $ 2,066.6 100 % $ 1,602.8 100 % In 2006, on an absolute basis, revenues in all regions increased year over year. Revenue from other foreign countries, which is primarily Asia, increased the most, primarily reflecting increased sales to mobile phone manufacturers and their related contract manufacturers. Sales in Japan increased primarily from higher sales of 3 D gaming cards from our acquisition of Matrix. The increase in sales in North America was due primarily to sales of our flash based digital audio players, sales of cards for mobile phones and USB drives. In 2005, our revenue from Japan primarily reflects the reduction in the sales of flash memory cards to digital camera OEMs based in Japan to the transition of after market sales of flash memory cards primarily in North America and EMEA. 43 Table of Contents License and Royalty Revenues. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) License and royalty revenues $ 331.1 38 % $ 239.5 37 % $ 174.2 The increase in our 2006 license and royalty revenues was primarily due to increased royalty bearing sales by our licensees. The increase in our 2005 license and royalty revenues was primarily due to increased royalty bearing sales by our licensees. Gross Margins. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Product gross margins $ 908.4 24 % $ 733.3 43 % $ 511.5 Product gross margins (as a percent of product revenue) 31.0 % 35.5 % 31.9 % Total gross margins (as a percent of total revenue) 38.0 % 42.2 % 38.6 % The 2006 product gross margin decreased from 2005 to 2006 by 4.5 percentage points. Approximately 2.9 percentage points of the gross margin decline was due to average selling prices declining at a faster rate than our product cost. In addition, our margins were negatively impacted by approximately 0.8% due to the acquisition of msystems, whose business in the fourth quarter was primarily based on non captive memory supply. In addition, cost of product increased due to amortization of acquisition related intangible assets of $27.8 million and share based compensation expense related to implementation of FAS 123(R) of $8.0 million, which combined accounted for approximately 0.8% of the decrease in the product gross margins over 2005. The largest driver of the 2005 increase in product gross margins was the reduction in our cost per megabyte due to the transition to 90 nanometer technology partially offset by decreases in our average selling price per megabyte. Fiscal 2005 gross margins were also benefited due to more production supply coming from captive sources which have lower costs. Research and Development. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Research and development $ 306.9 58 % $ 194.8 56 % $ 125.0 Percent of revenue 9.4 % 8.4 % 7.0 % Our 2006 research and development expense growth was primarily due to an increase in payroll, payroll related expenses and facility related expenses of approximately $57 million associated with headcount growth. Share based compensation expense related to implementation of FAS 123(R) accounted for $41.0 million of the research and development expense growth. In addition, research and development expense growth included initial design and development of 56 nanometer technology. Our 2005 research and development expense growth was primarily due to higher vendor engineering costs and costs associated with the initial design and development of manufacturing process technology related to Flash Partners 300 millimeter production line of $42.4 million, and payroll and payroll related expenses of $15.6 million associated with headcount increases related to developing new products. 44 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 203.4 66 % $ 122.2 34 % $ 91.3 Percent of revenue 6.2 % 5.3 % 5.1 % Our 2006 sales and marketing expense growth was primarily related to increased payroll and payroll related expenses of approximately $22 million associated with headcount growth, share based compensation expense related to implementation of FAS 123(R) of $21.6 million, increased merchandising on a worldwide basis of approximately $17 million and increased marketing efforts, all in support of our higher revenue base. Our 2005 sales and marketing expense growth was primarily related to increased tradeshow, advertising and branding on a worldwide basis of $15.5 million, and payroll and payroll related expenses of $7.3 million, all in support of our higher revenue base. General and Administrative. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 159.8 102 % $ 79.1 56 % $ 50.8 Percent of revenue 4.9 % 3.4 % 2.9 % Our 2006 general and administrative expense increases were primarily related to increased payroll and payroll related expenses of approximately $22 million associated with headcount increases, share based compensation expense related to implementation of FAS 123(R) of $30.0 million, higher legal expenses associated with litigation to defend our intellectual property and consulting expenses related to our acquisition of Matrix and msystems. Our 2005 general and administrative expense growth was primarily related to increased legal expenses associated with litigation to defend our intellectual property of $17.3 million, increased payroll and payroll related expenses of $6.0 million and consulting expenses of $5.0 million to support our expanded business. Our 2005 general and administrative expenses also included significant consulting expenses associated with establishing new legal entities and modifying our corporate organization to reflect our global business. Write off of Acquired In process Technology. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Write off of acquired in process technology $ 225.6 n/a n/a Percent of revenue 6.9 % n/a n/a As part of the Matrix and msystems acquisitions, a portion of the purchase price was allocated to acquired in process technology, which was determined through established valuation techniques in the high technology industry and written off at the date of acquisition in the first quarter and fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 because technological feasibility had not been established and no alternative future uses existed. The value was determined by estimating the net cash flows and discounting forecasted net cash flows to their present values. As of December 31, 2006, it was estimated that these in process projects would be completed over the next one to three years at an estimated total cost of approximately $27 million. See Note 10, Business Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 45 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquisition Related Intangible Assets. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets $ 17.4 n/a n/a Percent of revenue 0.5 % n/a n/a Our expense from the amortization of acquisition related intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2006 was directly related to our acquisition of Matrix in January 2006 and msystems in November 2006. See Note 10, Business Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Other Income. FY 2006 Percent Change FY 2005 Percent Change FY 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Equity in income of business ventures $ 0.5 25 % $ 0.4 (20 )% $ 0.5 Interest income 101.1 136 % 42.8 110 % 20.4 Interest expense (10.6 ) 1667 % (0.6 ) (90 )% (5.9 ) Gain (loss) in investment in foundries 6.1 (174 )% (8.2 ) (36 )% (12.9 ) Recovery on unauthorized sale of UMC shares 6.2 Other income (loss), net 7.3 217 % 2.3 (162 )% (3.7 ) Total other income, net $ 104.4 184 % $ 36.7 698 % $ 4.6 Other income for 2006 was comprised primarily of interest income of $101.1 million offset by interest expense of ($10.6) million resulting from our $1.15 billion debt offering in May 2006. See Note 7, Financing Arrangements, to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Other income for 2005 was comprised of interest income of $42.8 million, an other than temporary reduction in the value of our investment in Tower of ($10.1) million and other items of $4.0 million. Provision for Income Taxes. FY 2006 FY 2005 FY 2004 Provision for Income Taxes 53.5 % 37.0 % 37.0 % Our fiscal 2006 tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily due to state tax expense, net of federal benefit, nondeductible stock option compensation adjustments recorded under FAS 123(R), in process RD write offs, tax exempt interest income and foreign income at other than U.S. tax rates. The 2006 tax rate increased over prior year primarily due to nondeductible stock option compensation adjustments recorded under FAS 123(R), in process RD write offs, partially offset by increases in tax exempt interest income and foreign income at other than U.S. tax rates. Our fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily due to state tax expense, net of federal benefit. Our future tax rate may be impacted by state taxes, our ability to realize tax benefits from capital losses, our ability to obtain tax concessions from certain tax jurisdictions, and the geographic mix of our earnings. 46 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows. Operating activities generated $598.1 million of cash during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The primary sources of operating cash flow for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 were: (1) net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash charges including depreciation, amortization, share based compensation and write off of acquired in process technology, which were partially offset by lower deferred taxes and gain on investment in foundries, and (2) increases in accounts payable to related parties and other liabilities, which were partially offset by increases in accounts receivables, inventory and other assets and decreases in accounts payable trade. Operating activities generated $480.9 million of cash during the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006. Significant contributors to the generation of cash from operations were net income of $386.4 million, non cash adjustments to income for depreciation and amortization of $65.8 million, loss on investment in Tower of $10.1 million, foreign currency revaluation of FlashVision notes receivable of $7.7 million, amortization/accretion related to original premium/discount on short term investments of $2.6 million, decreases in income tax receivable of $64.2 million, increases in accounts payable of $148.2 million, increases in related party liabilities of $24.7 million, accrued payroll and related expenses of $13.8 million, deferred income of $57.2 million and current and non current other accrued liabilities of $6.9 million. These were partially offset by increases in the inventory balance of $135.2 million, accounts receivable of $134.2 million, other current and non current assets of $31.1 million, wafer cost adjustments of $2.3 million and deferred taxes of $1.5 million. We used $978.1 million for investing activities during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Purchases of short and long term investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities of short term investments, totaled $638.9 million. Capital expenditures totaling $176.5 million and investments and notes to the flash ventures of $204.1 million, net of repayments was partially offset by cash acquired of $51.8 million as a result of our acquisition of Matrix and msystems. We used $299.5 million for investing activities during the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006. We increased our short term investment balance by $81.0 million, loaned $34.2 million to FlashVision, invested $21.8 million in Flash Partners, loaned $20.0 million to Matrix, purchased $39.1 million of semiconductor wafer manufacturing equipment to be used at Toshibas Yokkaichi, Japan operations, purchased $95.4 million of test equipment and $3.5 million of investment in foundries and acquired a technology license for $4.5 million. We generated $1.20 billion of cash from financing activities due to $1.13 billion of cash from the issuance of the 1% Convertible Senior Notes, net of issuance costs, partially offset by the purchase of the convertible bond hedge of $386.1 million. We received $308.7 million from the issuance of warrants and $96.3 million from exercises of share based awards. Additionally, we received a tax benefit of $61.5 million on employee stock programs during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. We generated $115.4 million of cash from exercises of stock options and sales under our employee stock purchase plan during the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006. Liquid Assets. At December 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $2.81 billion. Short Term Liquidity. As of December 31, 2006, our working capital balance was $3.3 billion. We do not expect any liquidity constraints over the next twelve months. We currently expect our total investments, loans, expenditures and guarantees over the next 12 months to be approximately $1.4 billion. Of this amount, we expect to loan, make investments or guarantee future operating leases for fab expansion of approximately $1.1 billion and expect to spend approximately $300 million on property and equipment. The additions for property and equipment includes assembly, test and engineering equipment, information systems as well as equipment and the continued construction of a captive assembly and test manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China. The anticipated expenditure for this China project over the next 12 months is approximately $150 million of the total property and equipment expenditure and is subject to approval by the Chinese government. In December 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we intend to acquire up to $300 million of our outstanding common stock in the open market over the next two years. Under this program, share purchases may be made from time to time in the open market at our discretion. The stock repurchase program does not obligate us to purchase any particular amount of shares and the plan may be suspended at our discretion. As of February 15, 2007, we have repurchased $0.4 million of shares. 47 Table of Contents On February 15, 2007, our Board of Directors approved a plan, or Plan, to reduce operating costs, which includes a worldwide reduction in force of up to 10% of our headcount, or approximately 250 employees. We expect to incur a restructuring charge in connection with the Plan in the range of $15 million to $20 million, with the majority of the expense occurring in the first quarter of 2007. Cash payments associated with the Plan will be approximately half of the total restructuring charge, with the remainder comprised of share based compensation charges resulting primarily from acceleration of certain equity awards as per terms of the msystems acquisition. The workforce reduction will impact functions related to operations, engineering, sales and marketing and administration and will primarily be based in the United States and Israel, and to a lesser degree, other international locations. The Plan is expected to be completed by the third quarter of fiscal 2007. Total annualized operating cash cost savings related to the reduction in force and other cost saving measures, excluding severance costs, are expected to be approximately $30 million to $35 million, including cash savings from the reduction in force of approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition, the reduction in force is expected to result in a decrease in share based compensation expense of approximately $10 million on an annualized basis. Long Term Requirements. Depending on the demand for our products, we may decide to make additional investments, which could be substantial, in wafer fabrication foundry capacity and assembly and test manufacturing equipment to support our business in the future. We may also make equity investments in other companies or engage in merger or acquisition transactions. These additional investments or acquisitions may require us to raise additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain, and which if not obtained in satisfactory amounts may prevent us from funding the ventures with Toshiba, increasing our wafer supply, developing or enhancing our products, taking advantage of future opportunities, growing our business or responding to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could harm our business. Financing Arrangements. In May 2006, we issued and sold $1.15 billion in aggregate principal amount of 1% Notes due 2013. The 1% Notes were issued at par and pay interest at a rate of 1% per annum. The 1% Notes may be converted into our common stock, under certain circumstances, based on an initial conversion rate of 12.1426 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $82.36 per share). The conversion price will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. The net proceeds to us from the offering of the 1% Notes were $1.13 billion. Concurrently with the issuance of the 1% Notes, we purchased a convertible bond hedge and sold warrants. The separate convertible bond hedge and warrant transactions are structured to reduce the potential future economic dilution associated with the conversion of the 1% Notes and to increase the initial conversion price to $95.03 per share. Each of these components are discussed separately below: Convertible Bond Hedge. Counterparties agreed to sell to us up to approximately 14.0 million shares of our common stock, which is the number of shares initially issuable upon conversion of the 1% Notes in full, at a price of $82.36 per share. The convertible bond hedge transaction will be settled in net shares and will terminate upon the earlier of the maturity date of the 1% Notes or the first day none of the 1% Notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. Settlement of the convertible bond hedge in net shares on the expiration date would result in us receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by us upon conversion of the 1% Notes. Should there be an early unwind of the convertible bond hedge transaction, the number of net shares potentially received by us will depend upon 1) the then existing overall market conditions, 2) our stock price, 3) the volatility of our stock, and 4) the amount of time remaining before expiration of the convertible bond hedge. The convertible bond hedge transaction cost of $386.1 million has been accounted for as an equity transaction in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force No. 00 19, or EITF 00 19, Accounting for Derivative Financial Statements Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Companys Own Stock. We recorded a tax benefit of approximately $145.6 million in stockholders equity from the deferred tax assets related to the convertible bond hedge. Sold Warrants. We received $308.7 million from the same counterparties from the sale of warrants to purchase up to approximately 14.0 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $95.03 per share. As of December 31, 2006, the warrants have an expected life of approximately 6.5 years and expire in August 2013. At expiration, we may, at our option, elect to settle the warrants on a net share basis. As December 31, 2006, the warrants had not been exercised and remained outstanding. The value of the warrants has been classified as equity because they meet all the equity classification criteria of EITF 00 19. On November 30, 2006, we assumed through our acquisition of msystems, their $75 million in aggregate principal amount of 1% Convertible Senior Notes due 2035, or the 1% Notes due 2035. The 1% Notes due 2035, pay interest at a rate of 1% per 48 Table of Contents annum. The 1% Notes due 2035 may be converted into our common stock, under certain circumstances, based on an initial conversion rate of 26.8302 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $37.27 per share). The conversion price will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. Toshiba Ventures. We are a 49.9% percent owner in, FlashVision, Flash Partners and Flash Alliance, our business ventures with Toshiba to develop and manufacture NAND flash memory products. These NAND flash memory products are manufactured by Toshiba at Toshibas Yokkaichi, Japan operations using the semiconductor manufacturing equipment owned or leased by FlashVision or Flash Partners or to be owned or leased by Flash Alliance. This equipment is funded or will be funded by investments in or loans to the ventures from us and Toshiba. FlashVision and Flash Partners purchase and Flash Alliance will purchase wafers from Toshiba at cost and then resell those wafers to us and Toshiba at cost plus a markup. We are contractually obligated to purchase half of FlashVisions, Flash Partners and, when operational, Flash Alliances NAND wafer supply. We cannot estimate the total amount of our wafer purchase commitment as of December 31, 2006 because our price is determined by reference to the future cost to produce the semiconductor wafers. In addition to the semiconductor assets owned or leased by FlashVision and Flash Partners, we directly own certain semiconductor manufacturing equipment in Toshibas Yokkaichi, Japan operations from which we receive 100% of the output. From time to time, we and Toshiba mutually approve increases in the wafer supply capacity of Flash Partners that may contractually obligate us to increase capital funding. Our direct research and development contribution is based on a variable computation. We and Toshiba each pay the cost of our own design teams and 50% of the wafer processing and similar costs associated with this direct design and development of flash memory. We account for our 49.9% ownership position in the flash ventures under the equity method of accounting. Toshiba owns 50.1% of each of these ventures. The cost of the wafers we purchase from FlashVision and Flash Partners and wafers we will purchase from Flash Alliance is recorded in inventory and ultimately cost of sales. FlashVision, Flash Partners and Flash Alliance are variable interest entities and we are not the primary beneficiary of these ventures because we are entitled to less than a majority of any residual gains and are obligated with respect to less than a majority of residual losses with respect to each venture. Accordingly, we account for our investments under the equity method and do not consolidate. Our share of the net income or loss of FlashVision, Flash Partners and Flash Alliance is included in our Consolidated Statements of Income as Equity in income of business ventures. Under the FlashVision, Flash Partners and Flash Alliance agreements, we agreed to share in Toshibas costs associated with NAND product development and its common semiconductor research and development activities. As of December 31, 2006, we had accrued liabilities related to those expenses of $5.9 million. Our common research and development obligation related to FlashVision, Flash Partners and Flash Alliance is variable but capped at increasing fixed quarterly amounts through 2008. The common research and development participation agreement and the product development agreement are exhibits to this report on Form 10 K and should be read carefully in their entirety for a more complete understanding of these arrangements. For semiconductor fixed assets that are leased by FlashVision or Flash Partners, we and or Toshiba guaranteed, in whole or in part, a portion of the outstanding lease payments under each of those leases through various methods. These obligations are denominated in Japanese yen and are non cancelable. Under the terms of the FlashVision lease, Toshiba guaranteed these commitments on behalf of FlashVision and we agreed to indemnify Toshiba for certain liabilities Toshiba incurs as a result of its guarantee of the FlashVision equipment lease arrangement. As of December 31, 2006, the maximum amount of our contingent indemnification obligation, which reflects payments and any lease adjustments, was approximately 5.8 billion Japanese yen, or approximately $49 million based upon the exchange rate at December 31, 2006. Under the terms of the Flash Partners leases, we guaranteed on an unsecured and several basis 50% of Flash Partners lease obligations under master lease agreements entered into in December 2004, December 2005 and June 2006. Our total lease obligation guarantee, net of lease payments as of December 31, 2006, were 72.0 billion Japanese yen, or approximately $605 million based upon the exchange rate at December 31, 2006. The Flash Alliance venture was formed to develop and design NAND flash memory products and is expected to sell these products using semiconductor manufacturing equipment to be owned or leased by Flash Alliance. The NAND flash memory products will be manufactured by Toshiba at the proposed 300 millimeter wafer fabrication facility, Fab 4, being built in Yokkaichi, Japan. Flash Alliance will purchase wafers from Toshiba at cost and then resell those wafers to us and Toshiba at cost plus a markup. Toshiba owns 50.1% of this venture and we own 49.9% of this venture. We are committed to purchase half of Flash Alliances NAND wafer supply. The capacity of Fab 4 at full expansion is expected to be greater than 150,000 wafers per month and the timeframe to reach full capacity is to be mutually agreed by the parties. To date, the parties have agreed to an expansion plan to 67,500 wafers per month for which the total investment in Fab 4 is currently estimated at approximately $2.0 billion 49 Table of Contents through the end of fiscal year 2008, of which our share is currently estimated to be approximately $1.0 billion. Initial NAND production at Fab 4 is currently scheduled for the end of fiscal year 2007. For expansion beyond 67,500 wafers per month, it is expected that investments and output would continue to be shared 50/50 between us and Toshiba. We are committed to fund 49.9% of Flash Alliances costs to the extent that Flash Alliances revenues from wafer sales to us and Toshiba are insufficient to cover these costs. We expect to fund our portion of the investment through cash as well as other financing sources. We assumed msystems ownership interest in the venture with Toshiba, TwinSys, which was designed to enable the parties to benefit from a portion of each partys respective sales of USB flash drives. As of December 31, 2006, we had a 50.1% beneficial ownership in Twinsys Data Storage L.P., consisting of (i) 49.9% ownership in TwinSys and (ii) 0.2% interest held by Twinsys Ltd., in which we have a 51% ownership interest. We concluded that the venture is a variable interest entity as defined in FIN 46R, and determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the venture, and accordingly, we consolidate the venture. On a routine basis, the parties collectively prepare a joint production forecast for each companys respective needs. We and Toshiba are currently negotiating the mutual closure of this venture by the first half of fiscal year 2007; however, no written agreement has been reached. 50 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our contractual obligations and off balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2006, and the effect those contractual obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow over the next five years is presented in textual and tabular format in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Impact of Currency Exchange Rates Future exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2006 and 2005, we used foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate transaction gains and losses generated by these monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies than the U.S. dollar, currently only the Japanese yen. We do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. Our derivative instruments are recorded at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense) or accumulated other income. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. For a discussion of foreign operating risks and foreign currency risks, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. This is accomplished by investing in widely diversified short term investments, consisting primarily of investment grade securities, substantially all of which either mature within the next twelve months or have characteristics of short term investments. As of December 31, 2006, a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $4.5 million decline (less than 0.25%) in the fair value of our available for sale debt securities. Foreign Currency Risk. A substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activity is transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we do enter into transactions in other currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. Movements in currency exchange rates, especially the Japanese yen, could cause variability in our revenues, expenses or other income (expense), net. We had forward exchange contracts in place with a notional amount of 8.6 billion Japanese yen, or approximately $72 million based upon the exchange rate at December 31, 2006 and approximately $34 million as of January 1, 2006. The effect of an immediate 10% adverse change in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts would result in an approximate $8 million loss. However, as we utilize foreign currency instruments, for mitigating anticipated balance sheet exposures, a loss in fair value for those instruments is generally offset by increases in the value of the underlying exposure. See Item 1A, Risk Factors and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Market Risk. We also hold available for sale equity securities in semiconductor wafer manufacturing companies. As of December 31, 2006, a reduction in prices of 10% of these marketable equity securities would result in a decrease in the fair value of our investments in marketable equity securities of approximately $9 million. All of the potential changes noted above are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position at December 31, 2006. Actual results may differ materially. 52 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
