<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: DPL INC
CIK: 0000787250
SIC: 4931
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20181231
FILE DATE: 20190227
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. In light of executing on our plan to exit generation, our generation business and the risks associated with that business have significantly lessened, such as risks associated with operations of generation plants and with greenhouse gas emission requirements.We may not always be able to recover our costs to deliver electricity to our retail customers. The costs we can recover and the return on capital we are permitted to earn for certain aspects of our business are regulated and governed by the laws of Ohio and the rules, policies and procedures of the PUCO.In Ohio, retail generation rates are not subject to cost based regulation, while the transmission and distribution businesses are still regulated. Even though rate regulation is premised on full recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the PUCO will agree that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or are recoverable. On May 1, 2008, SB 221, an Ohio electric energy bill, was adopted that requires all Ohio distribution utilities to file either an ESP or an MRO and established a significantly excessive earnings test for Ohio public utilities that measures a utilitys earnings to determine whether there have been significantly excessive earnings during a given calendar year. There can be no assurance that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce a full or timely recovery of our costs or permitted rates of return. Accordingly, the revenue DP&L receives may or may not match its expenses at any given time.Changes in or reinterpretations of, or the unexpected application of the laws, rules, policies and procedures that set or govern electric rates, permitted rates of return, rate structures, operation of a competitive bid structure to supply retail generation service to SSO customers, reliability initiatives, capital expenditures and investments and the recovery of these and other costs on a full or timely basis through rates, power market prices, and the frequency and timing of rate increases, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.14Table of ContentsOur increased costs due to renewable energy and energy efficiency requirements may not be fully recoverable in the future.Ohio law contains annual targets for energy efficiency which began in 2009 and require increasing energy reductions each year compared to a baseline energy usage, up to 22.3% by 2027. Peak demand reduction targets began in 2009 with increases in required percentages each year, up to 7.75% by 2020. The renewable energy standards have increased our costs and are expected to continue to increase (and could materially increase) these costs. DP&L is entitled to recover costs associated with its renewable energy compliance costs, as well as its energy efficiency and demand response programs. If in the future we are unable to timely or fully recover these costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, if we were found not to be in compliance with these standards, monetary penalties could apply. These penalties are not permitted to be recovered from customers and significant penalties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The demand reduction and energy efficiency standards by design result in reduced energy and demand that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or a decline in the number of customers.Customer growth is affected by a number of factors outside our control, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. A lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers in our service territory could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and may cause us to fail to fully realize anticipated benefits from investments and expenditures.We are subject to numerous environmental laws, rules and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations, and may expose us to environmental liabilities.We are subject to various federal, state, regional and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the remediation of retired generation and other facilities, storage, handling, use, storage, disposal and transportation of coal combustion residuals and other materials, some of which may be defined as hazardous materials, the emission and discharge of hazardous and other materials into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. Such laws, rules and regulations tend to become stricter over time, and we could also become subject to additional environmental laws, rules and regulations and other requirements in the future. Environmental laws, rules and regulations also require us to comply with inspections and obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other governmental authorizations. These laws, rules and regulations often require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining and renewing licenses, permits and other governmental authorizations from federal, state and local agencies. If we are not able to timely comply with inspections and obtain, maintain or comply with all environmental laws, rules and regulations, and all licenses, permits and other government authorizations required to operate our business, then our operations could be prevented, delayed or subject to additional costs. A violation of environmental laws, rules, regulations, licenses, permits or other requirements can result in substantial fines, penalties, other sanctions, permit revocation, facility shutdowns, the imposition of stricter environmental standards and controls or other injunctive measures affecting operating assets. In addition, any actual or alleged violation of these laws, rules or regulations and other requirements may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such actual or alleged violations. DPL owns an undivided interest in one generating station operated by our co owner. As a non controlling owner in this generating station, DPL is responsible for its pro rata share of expenditures for complying with environmental laws, rules, regulations, licenses, permits and other requirements, but has limited control over the compliance measures taken by our co owner. Under certain environmental laws, we could also be held strictly, jointly and severally responsible for costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for human exposure to such hazardous substances or for other environmental damage.In particular, we are subject to potentially significant remediation expenses, enforcement initiatives, private party lawsuits and reputational risk associated with CCR. CCR, which consists of bottom ash, fly ash and air pollution control wastes generated at our current and former coal fired generation plant sites, is currently handled and or has been handled in the past in the following ways: placement in onsite CCR ponds; disposal and beneficial use in onsite and offsite permitted, engineered landfills; use in various beneficial use applications, including encapsulated uses and structural fill; and used in permitted offsite mine reclamation. CCR currently remains onsite at several of our facilities, including in CCR ponds. The USEPAs final CCR rule, which became effective in October 2015 and is currently subject to litigation and undergoing revisions by the USEPA, regulates CCR as nonhazardous solid waste and establishes national minimum criteria for existing and new CCR landfills, impoundments and ponds, including location restrictions, design and operating criteria, groundwater monitoring, corrective action and closure 15Table of Contentsrequirements and post closure care. On December 16, 2016, President Obama signed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act into law, which includes provisions to implement the CCR rule through a state permitting program, or if the state chooses not to participate, a possible federal permit program. The primary enforcement mechanisms for the CCR rule could be actions commenced by the USEPA, states and private lawsuits. Compliance with the CCR rule, amendments to the federal CCR rule, or other federal, state, or foreign rules or programs addressing CCR may require us to incur substantial costs. In addition, CCR, particularly with respect to its beneficial use and regulation as nonhazardous solid waste, has been the subject of interest from environmental non governmental organizations and the media. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.From time to time we are subject to enforcement and litigation actions for claims of noncompliance with environmental laws, rules and regulations or other environmental requirements. DPL cannot assure that it will be successful in defending against any claim of noncompliance. Any actual or alleged violation of these laws, rules, regulations and other requirements may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such actual or alleged violations and expose us to unexpected costs. Our costs and liabilities relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Item 1 Business Environmental Matters for a more comprehensive discussion of these and other environmental matters impacting us.We are reliant upon the performance of a co owner who operates our remaining co owned operational EGU.We co own an EGU operated by one of our co owners. Poor operational performance by our co owner, misalignment of co owners interests with our own or lack of control over costs (such as fuel costs) incurred at this station could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, any sale of this co owned EGU by the co owner to a third party could enhance the risk of a misalignment of interests, lack of cost control and other operational failures.The use of non derivative and derivative instruments in the normal course of business could result in losses that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.From time to time, we use non derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage financial risks. These trades are affected by a range of factors, including fluctuations in interest rates and optimization opportunities. We have attempted to manage our risk exposure by establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management policies. Despite our efforts, however, these risk limits and management policies may not work as planned and fluctuating prices and other events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these instruments can involve managements judgment or the use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. We could also recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, a counterparty failing to perform or the underlying transactions which the instruments are intended to hedge failing to materialize, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The Dodd Frank Act contains significant requirements related to derivatives that, among other things, could reduce the cost effectiveness of entering into derivative transactions.In July 2010, The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act) was signed into law. The Dodd Frank Act contains significant requirements relating to derivatives, including, among others, a requirement that certain transactions be cleared on exchanges that would necessitate the posting of cash collateral for these transactions. We are considered an end user under the Dodd Frank Act and therefore are exempt from most of the collateral and margining requirements. We are required to report our bilateral derivative contracts, unless our counterparty is a major swap participant or has elected to report on our behalf. Even though we qualify for an exception from these requirements, our counterparties that do not qualify for the exception may pass along any increased costs incurred by them through higher prices and reductions in unsecured credit limits or be unable to enter into certain transactions with us. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our business is sensitive to weather and seasonal variations.Weather conditions significantly affect the demand for electric power and, accordingly, our business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. As a result of these factors, our operating revenues and associated operating expenses are not generated evenly by month during the year. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long term historical average. In addition, severe or unusual weather, such as hurricanes and ice or snow storms, may cause outages and property damage that may 16Table of Contentsrequire us to incur additional costs that may not be insured or recoverable from customers. While DP&L is permitted to seek recovery of storm damage costs, if DP&L is unable to fully recover such costs in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our membership in a regional transmission organization presents risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.On October 1, 2004, in compliance with Ohio law, DP&L turned over control of its transmission functions and fully integrated into PJM, a regional transmission organization.The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time which could affect our costs and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by PJM rather than our internal planning process. Various proposals and proceedings before the FERC may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. In addition, PJM developed and continues to refine rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial effect on us. We also incur fees and costs to participate in PJM.SB 221 includes a provision that allows electric utilities to seek and obtain recovery of RTO related charges. Therefore, non market based costs are being recovered from all retail customers through the transmission rider. If in the future, however, we are unable to recover all of these costs in a timely manner this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.As members of PJM, DP&L and AES Ohio Generation are also subject to certain additional risks including those associated with the allocation of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in PJM markets among PJM members and those associated with complaint cases filed against PJM that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by PJM members including DP&L and AES Ohio Generation. These amounts could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Costs associated with new transmission projects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Annually, PJM performs a review of the capital additions required to provide reliable electric transmission services throughout its territory. PJM traditionally allocated the costs of constructing these facilities to those entities that benefited directly from the additions. Over the last several years, however, some of the costs of constructing new large transmission facilities have been socialized across PJM without a direct relationship between the costs assigned to and benefits received by particular PJM members. To date, the additional costs charged to DP&L for new large transmission approved projects have not been material. Over time, as more new transmission projects are constructed and if the allocation method is not changed, the annual costs could become material. DP&L is recovering the Ohio retail jurisdictional share of these allocated costs from its retail customers through the transmission rider. To the extent that any costs in the future are material and we are unable to recover them from our customers, such costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties.As an owner of a bulk power transmission system, DP&L is subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and enforced by the FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. In addition, DP&L is subject to Ohio reliability standards and targets. Compliance with reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs or increased capital expenditures. Although we expect to recover costs and expenditures from customers through regulated rates, there can be no assurance that the PUCO will approve full recovery in a timely manner. If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.17Table of ContentsWe rely on access to the financial markets. General economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all, and cause increases in our interest expense.From time to time we rely on access to the capital and credit markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. These capital and credit markets experience volatility and disruption from time to time and the ability of corporations to raise capital can be negatively affected. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets make it harder and more expensive to raise capital. It is possible that our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all, could be adversely affected by future market conditions, and we may be unable to access adequate funding to refinance our debt as it becomes due or finance capital expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, financial condition and prospects, the overall supply and demand in the credit markets, our credit ratings, credit capacity, the cost of financing, the financial condition, performance and prospects of other companies in our industry or with similar financial circumstances and other general economic and business conditions. It may also depend on the performance of credit counterparties and financial institutions with which we do business. Access to funds under our existing financing arrangements is also dependent on the ability of our counterparties to meet their financing commitments. Our inability to obtain financing on reasonable terms, or at all, with creditworthy counterparties could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability. See Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for information regarding indebtedness. See also Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk for information related to market risks.Our transmission and distribution system is subject to operational, reliability and capacity risks.The ongoing reliable performance of our transmission and distribution system is subject to risks due to, among other things, weather damage, intentional or unintentional damage, equipment or process failure, catastrophic events, such as fires and or explosions, facility outages, labor disputes, accidents or injuries, operator error or inoperability of key infrastructure internal or external to us and events occurring on third party systems that interconnect to and affect our system. The failure of our transmission and distribution system to fully operate and deliver the energy demanded by customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and if such failures occur frequently and or for extended periods of time, could result in adverse regulatory action. In addition, the advent and quick adoption of new products and services that require increased levels of electrical energy cannot be predicted and could result in insufficient transmission and distribution system capacity. Also, as a result of the above risks and other potential risks and hazards associated with transmission and distribution operations, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Further, any increased costs or adverse changes in the insurance markets may cause delays or inability in maintaining insurance coverage on terms similar to those presently available to us or at all. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Current and future conditions in the economy may adversely affect our customers, suppliers and other counterparties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows have been and will continue to be affected by general economic conditions. Slowing economic growth, credit market conditions, fluctuating consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the general economy, have caused and may continue to cause some of our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing customers may reduce their electricity consumption and may not be able to fulfill their payment obligations to us in a normal, timely fashion. In addition, some existing commercial and industrial customers may discontinue their operations. Sustained downturns, recessions or a sluggish economy generally affect the markets in which we operate and negatively influence our energy operations. A contracting, slow or sluggish economy could reduce the demand for energy in areas in which we are doing business. For example, during economic downturns, our commercial and industrial customers may see a decrease in demand for their products, which in turn may lead to a decrease in the amount of energy they require. Furthermore, projects which may result in potential new customers may be delayed until economic conditions improve. Some of our suppliers, customers, other counterparties and others with whom we transact business may also experience financial difficulties, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us or result in their declaring bankruptcy or similar insolvency type proceedings. For example, our counterparties on 18Table of Contentsforward purchase contracts and financial institutions involved in our credit facility may become unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements. Reduced demand for our electric services, failure by our customers to timely remit full payment owed to us and supply delays or unavailability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In particular, the projected economic growth and total employment in DP&Ls service territory are important to the realization of our forecasts for annual energy sales.The level of our indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely affect our financial flexibility, and a material change in market interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.As of December 31, 2018, the carrying value of DPLs debt was $1,475.9 million and the carrying value of DP&Ls debt was $586.1 million. Of DP&Ls indebtedness, there was $576.1 million of First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt bonds and a term loan outstanding as of December 31, 2018, which are each secured by the pledge of substantially all of the assets of DP&L under the terms of DP&Ls First & Refunding Mortgage. This level of indebtedness and related security could have important consequences, including:increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund other corporate purposes;limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; andlimiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds, as needed.If DP&L issues additional debt in the future, we will be subject to the terms of such debt agreements and be required to obtain regulatory approvals. To the extent we increase our leverage, the risks described above would also increase. Further, actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt as it becomes due. For a further discussion of our outstanding debt obligations, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Requirements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.DP&L has variable rate debt that bears interest based on a prevailing rate that is reset based on a market index that can be affected by market demand, supply, market interest rates and other market conditions. We also maintain both cash on deposit and investments in cash equivalents from time to time that could be impacted by interest rate fluctuations. As such, any event which impacts market interest rates could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, rating agencies issue ratings on our credit and our debt that affect our borrowing costs under our financial arrangements and affect our potential pool of investors and funding sources. Credit ratings also govern the collateral provisions of certain of our contracts. If the rating agencies were to downgrade our credit ratings further, our borrowing costs would likely further increase, our potential pool of investors and funding resources could be reduced, and we could be required to post additional collateral under select contracts. These events would likely reduce our liquidity and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Economic conditions relating to the asset performance and interest rates of our pension and postemployment benefit plans could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, level of employer contributions, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of our pension and postemployment benefit plan assets compared to obligations under our pension and postemployment benefit plans. Further, the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our pension and postemployment benefit plans. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and postemployment benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under our pension and postemployment benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future. Future pension funding 19Table of Contentsrequirements, and the timing of funding payments, may also be subject to changes in legislation. We are responsible for funding any shortfall of our pension and postemployment benefit plans assets compared to obligations under the pension and postemployment benefit plans, and a significant increase in our pension liabilities could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to the Pension Protection Act of 2006, which requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. As a result, our required contributions to these plans, at times, have increased and may increase in the future. In addition, our pension and postemployment benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. When interest rates decrease, the discounted liabilities increase benefit expense and funding requirements. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements for the obligations related to the pension and other postemployment benefit plans. Declines in market values and increased funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Counterparties providing materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We enter into transactions with and rely on many counterparties in connection with our business, including for purchased power, for our capital improvements and additions and to provide professional services, such as actuarial calculations, payroll processing and various consulting services. If any of these counterparties fails to perform its obligations to us or becomes unavailable, our business plans may be materially disrupted, we may be forced to discontinue certain operations if a cost effective alternative is not readily available or we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and cause delays. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than relief provided by these mitigation provisions. Any of the foregoing could result in regulatory actions, cost overruns, delays or other losses, any of which (or a combination of which) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, from time to time our construction program may call for extensive expenditures for capital improvements and additions, including the installation of upgrades, improvements to transmission and distribution facilities, as well as other initiatives. As a result, we may engage contractors and enter into agreements to acquire necessary materials and or obtain required construction related services. In addition, some contracts may provide for us to assume the risk of price escalation and availability of certain metals and key components. This could force us to enter into alternative arrangements at then current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and cause construction delays. It could also subject us to enforcement action by regulatory authorities to the extent that such a contractor failure resulted in a failure by DP&L to comply with requirements or expectations, particularly with regard to the cost of the project. If these events were to occur, we might incur losses or delays in completing construction.Accidental improprieties and undetected errors in our internal controls and information reporting could result in the disallowance of cost recovery, noncompliant disclosure or incorrect payment processing.Our internal controls, accounting policies and practices and internal information systems are designed to enable us to capture and process transactions and information in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with GAAP in the United States of America, laws and regulations, taxation requirements and federal securities laws and regulations in order to, among other things, disclose and report financial and other information in connection with the recovery of our costs and with our reporting requirements under federal securities, tax and other laws and regulations and to properly process payments. We have also implemented corporate governance, internal control and accounting policies and procedures in connection with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Our internal controls and policies have been and continue to be closely monitored by management and our Board of Directors. While we believe these controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to verify data integrity, unanticipated and unauthorized actions of employees, temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in oversight or resource constraints could lead to improprieties and undetected errors that could result in the disallowance of cost recovery, noncompliant disclosure and reporting or incorrect payment processing. The consequences of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.New accounting standards or changes to existing accounting standards could materially affect how we report our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The SEC, FASB or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. These changes are beyond our control, can be 20Table of Contentsdifficult to predict and could materially affect how we report our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, in preparing our Financial Statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates.We are subject to extensive laws and local, state and federal regulation, as well as litigation and other proceedings that could affect our operations and costs.As an electric utility, DP&L is subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state level. For example, at the federal level, DP&L is regulated by the FERC and the NERC and, at the state level, by the PUCO. The regulatory power of the PUCO over DP&L is both comprehensive and typical of the traditional form of regulation generally imposed by state public utility commissions. We face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action. Regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in Ohio. DP&L is subject to regulation by the PUCO as to our services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of securities and incurrence of debt, the acquisition and sale of some public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and subsequent legislation affecting the electric utility industry, we have been required to comply with rules and regulations in areas including mandatory reliability standards, cybersecurity, transmission expansion and energy efficiency. Complying with the regulatory environment to which we are subject requires us to expend a significant amount of funds and resources. The failure to comply with this regulatory environment could subject us to substantial financial costs and penalties and changes, either forced or voluntary, in the way we operate our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be subject to material litigation, regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, audits, settlements, investigations and claims from time to time which may require us to expend significant funds to address. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities, and we have been named as a defendant in asbestos litigation. The continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities could result in additional litigation being brought against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Item 1 Business Competition and Regulation, Item 1 Business Environmental Matters, and Item 3 Legal Proceedings for a summary of significant regulatory matters and legal proceedings involving us.Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments. From time to time, legislative measures may be enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax positions regarding income or other taxes. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these legislative measures.For example, the United States federal government recently enacted tax reform that, among other things, reduces U.S. federal corporate income tax rates, imposes limits on tax deductions for interest expense and changes the rules related to capital expenditure cost recovery. There are a number of uncertainties and ambiguities as to the interpretation and application of many of the provisions of the newly enacted tax reform measure. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it remains difficult to assess the overall effect such tax changes will have on our earnings and cash flow, and the extent to which such changes could adversely impact our results of operations. As the impacts of the new law are determined, and as yet to be released regulations and other guidance interpreting the new law are issued and finalized, our financial results could be materially impacted.In addition, U.S. federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will be sustained if challenged by relevant tax authorities and if not sustained, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.If we are unable to maintain a qualified and properly motivated workforce, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.One of the challenges we face is to retain a skilled, efficient and cost effective workforce while recruiting new talent to replace losses in knowledge and skills due to resignations, terminations or retirements. This undertaking could 21Table of Contentsrequire us to make additional financial commitments and incur increased costs. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we have employee compensation plans that reward the performance of our employees. We seek to ensure that our compensation plans encourage acceptable levels for risk and high performance through pay mix, performance metrics and timing. We may not be able to successfully train new personnel as current workers with significant knowledge and expertise retire. We also may be unable to staff our business with qualified personnel in the event of significant absenteeism related to a pandemic illness. Excessive risk taking by our employees to achieve performance targets, through mitigated by policies and procedures, could result in events that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We are subject to collective bargaining agreements that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We are subject to collective bargaining agreements with employees who are members of a union. Over half of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement that expires on October 31, 2020. While we believe that we maintain a satisfactory relationship with our employees, it is possible that labor disruptions affecting some or all of our operations could occur during the period of the collective bargaining agreement or at the expiration of the collective bargaining agreement before a new agreement is negotiated. Work stoppages by, or poor relations or ineffective negotiations with, our employees or other workforce issues could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Potential security breaches (including cybersecurity breaches) and terrorism risks could adversely affect our businesses.We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated systems and network infrastructure at our generation stations, fuel storage facilities and transmission and distribution facilities. We also use various financial, accounting and other systems in our businesses. These systems and facilities are vulnerable to unauthorized access due to hacking, viruses, other cybersecurity attacks and other causes. In particular, given the importance of energy and the electric grid, there is the possibility that our systems and facilities could be targets of terrorism or acts of war. We have implemented measures to help prevent unauthorized access to our systems and facilities, including network and system monitoring, identification and deployment of secure technologies, and certain other measures to comply with mandatory regulatory reliability standards. Pursuant to NERC requirements, we have a robust cybersecurity plan in place and are subject to regular audits by an independent auditor approved by the NERC. We routinely test our systems and facilities against these regulatory requirements in order to measure compliance, assess potential security risks, and identify areas for improvement. In addition, we provide cybersecurity training for our employees and perform exercises designed to raise employee awareness of cyber risks on a regular basis. To date, cyber attacks on our business and operations have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results. Despite these efforts, if our systems or facilities were to be breached or disabled, we may be unable to recover them in a timely manner to fulfill critical business functions, including the supply of electric services to our customers, and we could experience decreases in revenues and increases in costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In the course of our business, we also store and use customer, employee, and other personal information and other confidential and sensitive information, including personally identifiable information and personal financial information. If our or our third party vendors systems were to be breached or disabled, sensitive and confidential information and other data could be compromised, which could result in negative publicity, remediation costs and potential litigation, damages, consent orders, injunctions, fines and other relief.To help mitigate these risks, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses, including coverage for illegal acts against us. However, insurance may not be adequate to protect us against all costs and liabilities associated with these risks.DPL is a holding company and parent of DP&L and other subsidiaries. DPLs cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of DP&L and its other subsidiaries and their ability to pay cash to DPL.DPL is a holding company with no material assets other than the ownership of its subsidiaries, and accordingly all cash is generated by the operating activities of its subsidiaries, principally DP&L. As such, DPLs cash flow is largely dependent on the operating cash flows of DP&L and its ability to pay cash to DPL. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity for a discussion of these restrictions. See Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated 22Table of ContentsFinancial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for information regarding indebtedness. In addition, DP&L is regulated by the PUCO, which possesses broad oversight powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. The PUCO could impose additional restrictions on the ability of DP&L to distribute, loan or advance cash to DPL pursuant to these broad powers. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information the regulatory environment. As part of the PUCOs approval of the Merger, DP&L agreed to maintain certain capital structure levels. See Note 10 Equity of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 10 Equity of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for information related to these capital structure levels and restrictions on DP&Ls equity and its ability to declare and pay dividends to DPL. While we do not expect any of the foregoing to significantly affect DP&Ls ability to pay funds to DPL in the near future, a significant limitation on DP&Ls ability to pay dividends or loan or advance funds to DPL could have a material adverse effect on DPLs results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, as a result of any non compliance with PUCO requirements, the PUCO could impose additional restrictions on DP&L operations that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our ownership by AES subjects us to potential risks that are beyond our control.All of DP&Ls common stock is owned by DPL, and DPL is an indirectly wholly owned subsidiary of AES. Due to our relationship with AES, any adverse developments and announcements concerning AES may impair our ability to access the capital markets and to otherwise conduct business. In particular, downgrades in AESs credit ratings could result in DPLs or DP&Ls credit ratings being downgraded.Impairment of long lived assets would negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.Long lived assets are amortized or depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Long lived assets are evaluated for impairment only when impairment indicators are present. The recoverability assessment of long lived assets requires making estimates and assumptions to determine fair value, as described above. See Note 17 Fixed asset impairments or Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the impairment of fixed assets.Item 1B Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.Item 2 PropertiesInformation relating to our properties is contained in Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Our executive offices are located at 1065 Woodman Drive, Dayton, Ohio. This facility and the remainder of our material properties are owned directly by DP&L or AES Ohio Generation. These properties include our distribution service center in Dayton, Ohio, various substations and other transmission and distribution equipment and property.Substantially all property, plant & equipment of DP&L is subject to the lien of the mortgage securing DP&Ls First and Refunding Mortgage. All generation assets were released from the lien of DP&Ls first and refunding mortgage in connection with the completion of Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. See Note 14 Generation Separation of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Item 3 Legal ProceedingsDPL and DP&L are involved in certain claims, suits and legal proceedings in the normal course of business. DPL and DP&L have accrued for litigation and claims where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. DPL and DP&L believe, based upon information they currently possess and considering established reserves for estimated liabilities and insurance coverage, that the ultimate 23Table of Contentsoutcome of these proceedings and actions is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on their financial statements. It is reasonably possible, however, that some matters could be decided unfavorably and could require DPL or DP&L to pay damages or make expenditures in amounts that could be material but cannot be estimated as of December 31, 2018.The following additional information is incorporated by reference into this Item: information about the legal proceedings contained in Item 1 Business Competition and Regulation and Item 1 Business Environmental Matters.Item 4 Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicable.24Table of ContentsPART IIItem 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesAll of the outstanding common stock of DPL is owned indirectly by AES and directly by a wholly owned subsidiary of AES. As a result, DPLs stock is not listed for trading on any stock exchange. DP&Ls common stock is held solely by DPL and, as a result, is not listed for trading on any stock exchange.Dividends and return of capitalDuring the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, DPL paid no dividends to AES. DP&L declares and pays dividends on its common shares to its parent DPL from time to time as declared by the DP&L board. Return of capital payments and dividends on common shares in the amounts of $43.8 million, $39.0 million and $70.0 million were declared and paid in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. DP&L declared and paid dividends on preferred shares of $0.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2016.DPLs Amended Articles of Incorporation contain restrictions on DPLs ability to make dividends, distributions and affiliate loans (other than to its subsidiaries), including restrictions on making such dividends, distributions and loans if certain financial ratios exceed specified levels and DPLs senior long term debt rating from a rating agency is below investment grade. As of December 31, 2018, DPLs leverage ratio was at 1.47 to 1.00 and DPLs senior long term debt rating from a major credit rating agency was below investment grade. As a result, as of December 31, 2018, DPL was prohibited under its Articles of Incorporation from making a distribution to its shareholder or making a loan to any of its affiliates (other than its subsidiaries).DP&Ls 2017 ESP also contains restrictions on dividend or tax sharing payments from DPL to AES. See Note 10 Equity for more information and Note 8 Income Taxes for more information about the tax sharing payment restrictions.On October 13, 2016 (the "Redemption Date"), DPLs subsidiary, DP&L redeemed all of its issued and outstanding preferred stock. See Note 10 Equity of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for more information and Note 10 Equity of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.25Table of ContentsItem 6 Selected Financial DataThe following table presents our selected financial data which should be read in conjunction with DPLs audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto, DP&Ls audited Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Results of Operations discussion in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses significant fluctuations in operating data. DPLs common stock is wholly owned by an indirect subsidiary of AES and therefore DPL does not report earnings or dividends on a per share basis. Other information that management believes is important in understanding trends in our business is also included in this table. The total electric sales and Statements of Operations Data for DPL for 2014 and 2015 and the Balance Sheet Data for DPL for 2014 2016 are not comparable to the total electric sales and Statements of Operations Data for 2016 2018 and the Balance Sheet Data for 2017 and 2018, respectively, as these periods have not been adjusted to reflect the reclassification of the generation business, excluding Conesville, as a discontinued operation. The Statements of Operations Data for DP&L for 2014 and the total electric sales and Balance Sheet Data for DP&L for 2014 2015 are not comparable to the Statements of Operations Data for 2015 2018 and the total electric sales and Balance Sheet Data for 2016 2018, respectively, as these periods have not been adjusted to reflect the Generation Separation and its reclassification as a discontinued operation.DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions except per share amounts or as indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014Total electric sales (millions of kWh) 15,728 14,679 15,406 20,756 19,060Statements of Operations Data Revenues $775.9 $743.9 $834.2 $1,612.8 $1,716.5Goodwill impairment (a) $ $ $ $317.0 $Fixed asset impairment (b) $2.8 $ $23.9 $ $11.5Operating income / (loss) $135.5 $105.2 $119.0 $(109.9) $230.7Income / (loss) from continuing operations $31.2 $(1.5) $14.8 $(251.4) $57.2Income / (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $38.9 $(93.1) $(500.0) $12.4 $(131.8)Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $(239.0) $(74.6)Capital expenditures $103.6 $121.5 $148.5 $137.2 $118.1 Balance Sheet Data (end of period): Total assets $1,883.1 $2,049.2 $2,419.2 $3,324.7 $3,559.1Long term debt (c) $1,372.3 $1,700.2 $1,828.7 $1,420.5 $2,120.9Redeemable preferred stock of subsidiary $ $ $ $18.4 $18.4Total common shareholders equity / (deficit) $(471.7) $(584.3) $(587.6) $(80.6) $148.2(a)The goodwill impairment of $135.8 million in 2014 related to DPLER has been reclassified to discontinued operations.(b)Fixed asset impairments of $175.8 million and $835.2 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively, have been reclassified to discontinued operations.(c)Excluded from this line are the current maturities of long term debt.DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions except per share amounts or as indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014Total electric sales (millions of kWh) 15,194 14,401 15,008 26,394 28,634Statements of Operations Data Revenues $738.7 $720.0 $808.0 $857.0 $1,668.3Fixed asset impairment (a) $ $ $ $ $Operating income $135.1 $122.1 $169.0 $222.2 $188.8Income from continuing operations $86.7 $57.4 $97.6 $130.0 $114.1Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ $(40.4) $(870.3) $(23.6) $Net income / (loss) attributable to common stock $86.7 $17.0 $(773.4) $105.5 $114.1Capital expenditures $93.1 $101.7 $128.3 $127.0 $114.2 Balance Sheet Data (end of period): Total assets $1,819.6 $1,695.9 $2,035.1 $3,359.6 $3,328.8Long term debt (b) $581.5 $642.0 $731.5 $313.6 $868.2Redeemable preferred stock $ $ $ $22.9 $22.9Total common shareholders equity $445.3 $330.7 $362.3 $1,212.7 $1,143.4 Number of shareholders preferred stock 180 186(a)Fixed asset impairment of $1,353.5 million in 2016 has been reclassified to discontinued operations.(b)Excluded from this line are the current maturities of long term debt.26Table of ContentsItem 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with DPLs audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto and DP&Ls audited Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the results suggested by these forward looking statements. See Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Form 10 K and Item 1A Risk Factors. For a list of certain abbreviations or acronyms in this discussion, see Glossary of Terms at the beginning of this Form 10 K.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYDPLDPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $38.4 million, or 591%, from a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.9Lower interest expense due to debt payments made in 2017 and 2018 12.0Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (25.7)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (11.7)Other (6.0)Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $38.4DPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined by $18.9 million, or 152%, from pre tax income of $12.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.4)Increase due to lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 6.7Fixed asset impairment recorded in 2016 on Conesville facility 23.9Other 0.9Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $(18.9)DP&LDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $15.9 million, or 18%, from pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $104.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.7Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (24.6)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (12.4)Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery (8.1)Increase in insurance and claims costs (4.0)Other (4.6)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $15.927Table of ContentsDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined $55.1 million, or 38%, from pre tax income of $143.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.5)Increase in General taxes driven by higher property taxes (8.3)Lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 7.9Other (4.2)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $(55.1)RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DPLDPLs results of operations include the results of its subsidiaries, including the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. A separate specific discussion of the results of operations for DP&L is presented elsewhere in this report.Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $656.9 $641.5 $738.5Wholesale 52.0 31.9 27.1RTO revenue 43.2 47.4 46.5RTO capacity revenues 14.4 12.1 11.0Other revenues 9.4 11.0 11.1Total revenues 775.9 743.9 834.2Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 17.5 9.0 17.4Purchased power: Purchased power 244.9 231.4 258.1RTO charges 57.8 57.5 59.7RTO capacity charges 2.3 2.1 1.3Net purchased power cost 305.0 291.0 319.1 Total cost of revenues 322.5 300.0 336.5 Gross margin 453.4 443.9 497.7 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 156.8 186.1 213.5Depreciation and amortization 73.1 76.1 73.6General taxes 73.5 77.1 68.4Fixed asset impairment 2.8 23.9Gain on asset disposal (0.6) (0.7)Loss on disposal of business (Note 16) 11.7 Total operating expenses 317.9 338.7 378.7 Operating income 135.5 105.2 119.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (98.0) (110.0) (107.4)Charge for early redemption of debt (6.5) (3.3) (3.1)Other income 0.9 1.6 3.9Other expense, net (103.6) (111.7) (106.6) Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax (a) $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.28Table of ContentsDPL RevenuesRetail customers, especially residential and commercial customers, consume more electricity on warmer and colder days. Therefore, our retail sales volume is affected by the number of heating and cooling degree days occurring during a year. Cooling degree days typically have a more significant effect than heating degree days since some residential customers do not use electricity to heat their homes.Degree days Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Heating degree days (a) 5,547 4,805 5,034Cooling degree days (a) 1,341 890 1,213(a)Heating and cooling degree days are a measure of the relative heating or cooling required for a home or business. The heating degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is below 65 degrees Fahrenheit. For example, if the average temperature on March 20th was 40 degrees Fahrenheit, the heating degrees for that day would be the 25 degree difference between 65 degrees and 40 degrees. Similarly, cooling degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is above 65 degrees Fahrenheit.DPLs electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DPL Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 1,289 816 907Total electric sales 15,728 14,679 15,406 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DPL retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within DPL wholesale electric sales are DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC and the generation output of Conesville.During the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $32.0 million to $775.9 million from $743.9 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown above by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.9 Total retail change 15.4 Wholesale Increase due to increased volumes sold by Conesville of 93% and higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices20.1 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (1.9) Other Other revenues (1.6) Net change in Revenues $32.0 29Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $90.3 million to $743.9 million from $834.2 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (69.2) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown above by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.4) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.0) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased volumes sold by Conesville of 30% and decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 4.8 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 2.0 Other Other revenues (0.1) Net change in Revenues $(90.3)DPL Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $22.5 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs Increase due to higher internal generation at Conesville of 93% $8.5 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (12.2)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 25.7Total purchased power change 13.5 RTO charges 0.3RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 14.0 Net change in Cost of Revenues $22.530Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $36.5 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015 being collected in 2016, and decreased internal generation at Conesville of 30% $(8.4) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (20.0)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (6.7)Total purchased power change (26.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (2.2)RTO capacity charges 0.8Net change in purchased power (28.1) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(36.5)DPL Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $29.3 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Decrease in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan (2.2)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 7.3Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net (2.5)Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(29.3)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $27.4 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 3.3Increase in legal and other consulting costs 2.9Other, net (3.0)Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(27.4)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DPL Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $3.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a credit recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018 related to the reduction of ARO assets for Conesville. The ARO assets were previously fully impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.5 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.31Table of ContentsDPL General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.6 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018 and the unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property taxes.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.7 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, an unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.4 million increase in other general taxes.DPL Fixed asset ImpairmentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $2.8 million for Conesville, as it was determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $23.9 million. In the fourth quarter of 2016, DPL performed a long lived asset impairment analysis for Conesville and determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.DPL Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a loss on disposal of business of $11.7 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility. DPL Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Interest expense decreased $12.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DPL and DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Interest expense increased $2.6 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DPL Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $6.5 million primarily due to the make whole premium payment of $5.1 million related to the $101.0 million partial redemption, in April 2018, of the DPL 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.3 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.1 million primarily due to the February 2016 make whole premium of $2.4 million associated with the early retirement of $73.0 million of the 6.5% Senior Notes due in 2016.DPL Income Tax ExpenseIncome tax benefit of $5.0 million in 2017 changed to expense of $0.7 million in 2018. This change was primarily driven by the increase in Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax in the current year, partially offset by the decrease in federal tax rate from 35% to 21% and tax benefits associated with the amortization of the impact of the lower income tax rate resulting from the TCJA on our deferred tax balances.Income tax benefit increased $2.6 million from $2.4 million in 2016 to $5.0 million in 2017. This increase was primarily due to a pre tax loss in 2017 compared to pre tax income in 2016 and the one time re measurement of deferred tax expense related to the recent enactment of the TCJA.DPL Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, DPL recorded income / (loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $38.9 million, $(93.1) million and $(500.0) million, respectively. This income / (loss) relates to the generation components of Stuart, Killen, Miami Fort, Zimmer, and the Peaker assets, which were disposed of 32Table of Contentseither by sale or retirement within the last year. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT DPL Inc.Beginning with the second quarter of 2018, DPL has presented the results of operations of Miami Fort Station, Zimmer Station, the Peaker Assets, Stuart Station and Killen Station as discontinued operations as a group of components for all periods presented. For more information, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements. AES Ohio Generation now only has operating activity coming from its undivided ownership interest in Conesville, which does not meet the threshold to be a separate reportable operating segment. Because of this, DPL now manages its business through only one reportable operating segment, the Utility segment. The primary segment performance measure is income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax as management has concluded that this measure best reflects the underlying business performance of DPL and is the most relevant measure considered in DPLs internal evaluation of the financial performance of its segments. The Utility segment is discussed further below:Utility SegmentThe Utility segment is comprised primarily of DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses, which distribute electricity to residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. DP&L distributes electricity to more than 525,000 retail customers who are located in a 6,000 square mile area of West Central Ohio. DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses are subject to rate regulation by federal and state regulators. Accordingly, DP&L applies the accounting standards for regulated operations to its electric transmission and distribution businesses and records regulatory assets when incurred costs are expected to be recovered in future customer rates, and regulatory liabilities when current cost recoveries in customer rates relate to expected future costs. The Utility segment includes revenues and costs associated with our investment in OVEC and the historical results of DP&Ls Beckjord Facility, which was closed in 2014 and transferred to a third party in the first quarter of 2018, and the Hutchings EGU, which was closed in 2013. These assets did not transfer to AES Ohio Generation as part of DP&Ls Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. Thus, they are grouped within the Utility segment for segment reporting purposes. In addition, regulatory deferrals and collections, which include fuel deferrals in historical periods, are included in the Utility segment.Included within the Other column are other businesses that do not meet the GAAP requirements for disclosure as reportable segments as well as certain corporate costs, which include interest expense on DPLs long term debt and adjustments related to purchase accounting from the Merger. DPLs undivided interest in Conesville is now included within the "Other" column as it no longer meets the requirement for disclosure as a reportable operating segment, since the results of operations of the other generation plants are now presented as discontinued operations. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales and profits are eliminated in consolidation. Certain shared and corporate costs are allocated among reporting segments.See Note 13 Business Segments of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding DPLs reportable segment.The following table presents DPLs Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax by business segment: Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Utility $104.4 $88.5 $143.0Other (72.5) (95.0) (130.6)Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Utility SegmentThe results of operations of the Utility segment for DPL are identical in all material respects and for all periods presented to those of DP&L, which are included in Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Statement of Operations Highlights DP&L) of this Form 10 K.33Table of ContentsRESULTS OF OPERATIONS DP&LStatement of Operations Highlights DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $657.9 $642.6 $739.8Wholesale 29.9 23.6 16.1RTO revenue 43.1 47.2 45.7RTO capacity revenues 7.8 6.6 6.4Total revenues 738.7 720.0 808.0Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 2.4 0.5 5.3Purchased power: Purchased power 243.5 230.6 258.3RTO charges 55.6 57.2 58.6RTO capacity charges 2.2 2.0 (0.2)Net purchased power cost 301.3 289.8 316.7Total cost of revenues 303.7 290.3 322.0 Gross margin 435.0 429.7 486.0 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 139.7 156.5 178.4Depreciation and amortization 74.5 75.3 71.0General taxes 73.1 76.3 68.0Loss / (gain) on asset disposal 0.2 (0.5) (0.4)Loss on disposal of business (Note 15) 12.4 Total operating expenses 299.9 307.6 317.0 Operating income 135.1 122.1 169.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (27.3) (30.5) (24.7)Charge for early redemption of debt (0.6) (1.1) (0.5)Other income (2.8) (2.0) (0.2)Total other expense, net (30.7) (33.6) (25.4) Income from continuing operations before income tax (a) $104.4 $88.5 $143.6(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.DP&Ls electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DP&L Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 755 538 509Total electric sales 15,194 14,401 15,008 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DP&L retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within wholesale electric sales is DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC.34Table of ContentsDP&L RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $18.7 million to $738.7 million from $720.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.7 Other miscellaneous 0.1Total retail change 15.3 Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices 6.3 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (2.9) Net change in Revenues $18.7During the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $88.0 million to $720.0 million from $808.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.6Net change in retail rate (69.3) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.5) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.2) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 7.5 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 1.7 Net change in Revenues $(88.0)35Table of ContentsDP&L Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $13.4 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs $1.9 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (11.7)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 24.6Total purchased power change 12.9 RTO charges (1.6)RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 11.5 Net change in Cost of Revenues $13.4During the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $31.7 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015, being collected in 2016 $(4.8) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (19.8)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (7.9)Total purchased power change (27.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (1.4)RTO capacity charges 2.2Net change in purchased power (26.9) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(31.7)DP&L Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $16.8 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 8.1Increase in insurance and claims costs 4.0Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net 3.0Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(16.8)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.36Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $21.9 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in legal and other consulting costs 4.5Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 4.0Other, net 0.2Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(21.9)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with this program resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DP&L Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.8 million compared to the prior year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.3 million compared to the prior year. This change was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.DP&L General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.3 million. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, a 2017 unfavorable true up of $1.1 million for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.0 million increase in other general taxes.DP&L Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a Loss on disposal of business of $12.4 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility.DP&L Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, interest expense decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, interest expense increased $5.8 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DP&L Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $0.6 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$1.1 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$0.5 million.DP&L Income Tax ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Income tax expense decreased $13.4 million from $31.1 million in 2017 to $17.7 million in 2018 primarily due to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% as a result of the passage of the TCJA and the amortization of excess deferred taxes resulting from the TCJA, partially offset by higher pre tax income in the current year versus the prior year.37Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Income tax expense decreased $14.9 million from $46.0 million in 2016 to $31.1 million in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in pre tax income in the current year, a decrease in the depreciation of AFUDC Equity, and a tax reserve that was recorded in the prior year. Partially offsetting the decrease was a prior year deferred tax adjustment that was not required in the current year.DP&L Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, DP&L recorded losses from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $40.4 million and $870.3 million, respectively. These losses relate to the discontinued DP&L Generation segment, which was transferred to AES Ohio Generation through Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. See Note 14 Generation Separation in Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.KEY TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIESFollowing the issuance of the DRO in September 2018 and the resulting changes to the decoupling rider effective January 1, 2019, we expect that our financial results will no longer be driven by retail demand and weather but will be impacted by customer growth within our service territory. See further discussion on these changes in Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. In addition, DPLs and DP&Ls financial results are likely to be driven by other factors including, but not limited to:regulatory outcomes;the passage of new legislation, implementation of regulations or other changes in regulations;timely recovery of transmission and distribution expenditures; andexiting generation assets currently owned by AES Ohio Generation.OperationalAs part of our announced plan to exit our generation businesses, on May 31, 2018, we retired the Stuart and Killen EGUs. In addition, we closed on a sale of our Peaker assets in March 2018. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In October 2018, AEP, the operator of the co owned Conesville EGU, announced that Unit 4 would close by May 2020. For additional information on these events and DPLs coal fired facilities, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.Macroeconomic and PoliticalUnited States Tax Law ReformIn December 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the TCJA. The legislation significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates and introducing new limitations on interest expense deductions beginning in 2018. These changes will materially impact our effective tax rate in future periods. Specific provisions of the TCJA and their potential impacts on us are noted below. Our interpretation of the TCJA may change as the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service issue additional guidance. Such changes may be material.Lower Tax Rate The corporate tax rate decreased from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018. In addition to deferred tax remeasurement impacts, the lower tax rate resulted in the recognition, at December 31, 2017, of a regulatory liability at DP&L. The regulatory liability reflects deferred taxes that will flow back to ratepayers over time. For further details, see Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and "Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.SAB 118 As further explained in Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements, we have concluded our analysis of the implementation impacts of the TCJA and included adjustments to our previous estimates in accordance with the guidance of SAB 118.Limitation on Interest Expense Deductions The TCJA introduced a new limitation on the deductibility of net interest expense beginning January 1, 2018. The deduction is limited to interest income, plus 30 percent of tax basis EBITDA through 2021 (30 percent of EBIT beginning January 1, 2022). This determination is made at the 38Table of Contentsconsolidated group level. The limitation does not apply to interest expense attributable to regulated utility property. The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service have released proposed regulations to clarify how the exception will apply to regulated utility holding companies. These proposed regulations are prospective; we have not adopted them for 2018.Cost Recovery The TCJA amended depreciation rules to provide full expensing (100% bonus depreciation) for assets that commence construction and are placed in service before January 1, 2023. This provision is phased down by 20 percent ratably through 2027. The immediate full expensing provision is elective, but it does not apply to regulated utility property. This change is not expected to impact our effective tax rate; however, if elected, it could impact taxable income and cash taxes in future periods.State Taxes The reactions of the individual states to federal tax reform is still evolving. These state and municipalities will assess whether and how the federal changes will be incorporated into their tax legislation.On January 10, 2018 the PUCO initiated a proceeding to consider the impacts of the TCJA to determine the appropriate course of action to pass benefits resulting from the legislation on to ratepayers. The PUCO also directed Ohio utilities to record deferred liabilities for the estimated reduction in federal income tax resulting from the TCJA beginning January 1, 2018. Under the terms of the ESP, DPL will not make tax sharing payments and if our rates are reduced as a result of the TCJA, DPLs cash flows could be adversely affected. See Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.LIBOR Phase OutIn July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced the phase out of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee within the Federal Reserve is responsible for the transition from LIBOR to a new benchmark replacement rate. While we maintain financial instruments that use LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark, the full impact of the phase out is uncertain until a new replacement benchmark is determined andimplementation plans are more fully developed.Regulatory EnvironmentFor a comprehensive discussion of the market structure and regulation of DPL and DP&L, see Part I, Item 1 Business Competition and Regulation.In December 2018, DP&L filed a Distribution Modernization Plan (DMP) with the PUCO proposing to invest $576.0 million in capital projects over the next 10 years. There are eight principal components of DP&Ls DMP: 1) Smart Meters, 2) Self Healing Grid, 3) Customer Engagement, 4) Enhancing Sustainability and Embracing Innovation. 5) Telecommunications, 6) Physical and Cyber Security, 7) Governance and Analytics, and 8) Grid Modernization R&D.On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.For more information regarding DP&Ls ESP, see Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYCash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for DPL and DP&L was $111.7 million and $66.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018. At that date, neither DPL nor DP&L had short term investments. DPL and DP&L had aggregate principal amounts of debt outstanding of $1,488.4 million and $593.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018.Approximately $103.6 million of DPLs debt and $4.6 million of DP&Ls debt matures within the next twelve months, which we expect to repay using a combination of cash on hand, net cash provided by operating activities and or net proceeds from the issuance of new debt. From time to time, we may elect to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise when management believes such repurchases are favorable to make. The amounts involved in any such repurchases may be material.We depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage our liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations could affect the cash flows and results of operations of our business.DP&L must first seek approval from the PUCO to issue new stocks, bonds, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness. Annually, DP&L must receive authority to issue and assume liability on short term debt, not to exceed 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.401 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L received an order from the PUCO granting authority through December 31, 2019 to, among other things, issue up to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of short term indebtedness. DP&L must also receive authority to issue and assume liability on long term debt, in excess of 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.40 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L last received approval in 2016 to, among other things, issue up to $455.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 30 years at an interest rate not to exceed 6.60%. DP&L also has restrictions on the amount of new debt that may be issued due to contractual obligations of AES and by financial covenant restrictions under existing debt obligations. DP&L does not believe such restrictions will be a limiting factor in our ability to issue debt in the ordinary course of prudent business operations. In 2019, DP&L filed for approval to, among other things, issue up to $425.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 40 years at an interest rate not to exceed 5.75%.CASH FLOWSDPLs financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements include the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.Cash Flow Analysis DPL:DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities 129.9 (39.3) (141.5)Net cash used in financing activities (250.5) (149.6) (167.1)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 1.5 27.5 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 86.8 (29.7) (25.7)Balance at beginning of year 24.9 54.6 80.3Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year $111.7 $24.9 $54.6DPL Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $164.7 $390.6Depreciation and amortization 55.7 110.5 137.9 (54.8) (27.4)Impairment expenses 2.8 175.8 859.0 (173.0) (683.2)Charge for early redemption of debt 6.5 3.3 3.1 3.2 0.2Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 2.0 (21.8) (359.8) 23.8 338.0Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 137.1 173.2 155.0 (36.1) 18.2Net change in operating assets and liabilities 68.8 (41.5) 112.1 110.3 (153.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1 $74.2 $(135.4)39Table of ContentsFiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accrued taxes payable is primarily due to a prior year income tax benefit and current year income tax expense $41.1Increase from accounts receivable is primarily due to 2018 collections of PJM transmission enhancement settlement and remaining amounts due from partners in jointly owned stations 27.6Increase from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and lower coal purchases in 2018 20.0Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, is primarily due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from pension, retiree and other benefits relates to higher contributions and lower accruals of net periodic benefit costs in 2018 (8.1)Increase from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2018 7.1Other 8.1Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $110.3Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(51.4)Decrease from accrued taxes payable primarily due to incurring current income tax expense in 2016 compared to a current tax benefit in 2017 (48.8)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Decrease from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2016 (24.3)Other (1.3)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(153.6)DPL Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities primarily relates to proceeds from the sale of business of $234.9 million, primarily due to the sale of the Peaker assets, and proceeds of $10.6 million, related to the June transmission swap with Duke and AEP, partially offset by capital expenditures of $103.6 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $121.5 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.3 million, and $70.1 million of proceeds from the sale of the Miami Fort and Zimmer stations.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $148.5 million, partially offset by $6.3 million of insurance proceeds.DPL Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $240.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net repayments on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $159.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net borrowings on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $577.8 million of long term debt, and the redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of new long term debt of $442.8 million.40Table of ContentsCash Flow Analysis DP&L:DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2Net cash used in investing activities (96.9) (89.5) (121.6)Net cash used in financing activities (38.3) (68.9) (135.2)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 27.0 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 60.6 4.0 (3.8)Balance at beginning of year 5.6 1.6 5.4Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of year $66.2 $5.6 $1.6DP&L Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $86.7 $17.0 $(772.7) $69.7 $789.7Depreciation and amortization 77.6 88.3 123.2 (10.7) (34.9)Impairment expenses 66.3 1,353.5 (66.3) (1,287.2)Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 29.5 23.9 (481.3) 5.6 505.2Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 193.8 195.5 222.7 (1.7) (27.2)Net change in operating assets and liabilities 2.0 (60.1) 14.5 62.1 (74.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2 $60.4 $(101.8)Fiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and less generation related payments, mostly related to coal purchases $52.5Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from inventory primarily due to no longer having coal purchases in 2018 (10.6)Other 5.7Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $62.1Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(63.3)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Increase from accounts receivable primarily due to timing of collections 22.9Other (6.4)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(74.6)DP&L Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $93.1 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million, partially offset by proceeds of $10.6 million related to the June transmission asset swap with Duke and AEP. During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $101.7 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $128.3 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $6.1 million.41Table of ContentsDP&L Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $64.5 million of long term debt, returns of capital paid to parent of $43.8 million, and $10.0 million net repayments on revolving credit facilities during the year, partially offset by a $80.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to retirement of $104.5 million of long term debt and dividends and return of capital paid to parent of $39.0 million, partially offset by a $70.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $445.3 million of long term debt, $70.0 million in dividends paid on common stock to parent, related party repayments, net of related party borrowings, of $30.0 million, and redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of $442.8 million of new long term debt.LiquidityWe expect our existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs. Our business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and carrying costs, potential margin requirements related to energy hedges, taxes and dividend payments. For 2019 and subsequent years, we expect to satisfy these requirements with a combination of cash from operations and funds from debt financing as our internal liquidity needs and market conditions warrant. We also expect that the borrowing capacity under bank credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements during those periods. In addition, DP&Ls 2017 ESP provides for a DMR, which will be used for debt obligations at DPL and DP&L. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters for more information.At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L have access to the following revolving credit facilities:$ in millions Type Maturity Commitment Amounts available as of December 31, 2018DPL Revolving July 2020 $205.0 $191.0 DP&L Revolving July 2020 175.0 173.9 $380.0 $364.9DP&Ls revolving credit facility has a commitment of $175.0 million, with a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DP&L the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $100.0 million and extending the term of the facility from May 2018 to July 2020. At December 31, 2018, DP&L had nothing drawn under this facility and had one letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million outstanding, with the remaining $173.9 million available to DP&L. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.DPL has a revolving credit facility of $205.0 million, with a $200.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DPL the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $95.0 million. This facility is secured by a pledge of common stock that DPL owns in DP&L, limited to the amount permitted to be pledged under certain Indentures dated October 3, 2011 and October 6, 2014 between DPL and Wells Fargo Bank, NA and U.S. Bank National Association, respectively, as Trustee and a limited recourse guarantee by AES Ohio Generation secured by assets of AES Ohio Generation. DPL further secured the credit facility through a leasehold mortgage on additional assets of AES Ohio Generation. The facility expires in July 2020; however, DPLs credit facility has a springing maturity feature providing that if, before July 1, 2019, DPL has not refinanced its senior unsecured bonds due October 2019 to have a maturity date that is at least six months later than July 31, 2020, then the maturity of this facility shall be July 1, 2019. At December 31, 2018, there were five letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $14.0 million outstanding under this facility, and nothing borrowed on the facility, with the remaining $191.0 million available to DPL. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.42Table of ContentsCapital RequirementsConstruction Additions Actual Projected$ in millions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021DPL $140 $108 $84 $143 $223 $262 DP&L $88 $83 $82 $140 $221 $260Capital projects are subject to continuing review and are revised in light of changes in financial and economic conditions, load forecasts, legislative and regulatory developments and changing environmental laws, rules and regulations, among other factors.DPL is projecting to spend an estimated $628.0 million in capital projects for the period 2019 through 2021, which includes expected spending under DP&Ls Distribution Modernization Plan ("DMP") filed with the PUCO in December 2018. DP&Ls 2017 ESP also provided for a DMR to pay debt obligations at DPL and DP&L and position DP&L to modernize and or maintain its transmission and distribution infrastructure. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information. On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.DP&L is subject to the mandatory reliability standards of NERC and Reliability First Corporation (RFC), one of the eight NERC regions, of which DP&L is a member. NERC has recently changed the definition of the Bulk Electric System to include 100 kV and above facilities, thus expanding the facilities to which the reliability standards apply. DP&Ls 138 kV facilities were previously not subject to these reliability standards. Accordingly, DP&L anticipates spending approximately $221.0 million within the next five years to reinforce its 138 kV system to comply with these new NERC standards. Our ability to complete capital projects and the reliability of future service will be affected by our financial condition, the availability of internal funds and the reasonable cost of external funds. We expect to finance our construction additions with a combination of cash on hand, short term financing, long term debt and cash flows from operations.Debt CovenantsFor information regarding our long term debt covenants, see Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Debt RatingsThe following table outlines the debt ratings and outlook for DPL and DP&L, along with the effective or affirmed date of each rating. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB(a) / BBB (b) A (c) Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 (b) A3 (c) Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB (b) BBB+ (c) Stable March 2018(a)Rating relates to DPLs senior secured debt.(b)Rating relates to DPLs senior unsecured debt.(c)Rating relates to DP&Ls senior secured debt.Credit RatingsThe following table outlines the credit ratings (issuer/corporate rating) and outlook for each company, along with the effective or affirmed dates of each rating and outlook for DPL and DP&L. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB BBB Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 Baa2 Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB BBB Stable March 201843Table of ContentsIf the rating agencies were to reduce our debt or credit ratings, our borrowing costs may increase, our potential pool of investors and funding resources may be reduced, and we may be required to post additional collateral under certain contracts. These events may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, any such reduction in our debt or credit ratings may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding debt securities. Non investment grade companies may experience higher costs to issue new securities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsDPL GuaranteesIn the normal course of business, DPL enters into various agreements with its wholly owned subsidiary, AES Ohio Generation, providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. These agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness otherwise attributed to these subsidiaries on a stand alone basis, thereby facilitating the extension of sufficient credit to accomplish this subsidiarys intended commercial purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL did not incur any losses related to the guarantees of these obligations and we believe it is unlikely that DPL would be required to perform or incur any losses in the future associated with any of the above guarantees.At December 31, 2018, DPL had $23.6 million of guarantees on behalf of AES Ohio Generation to third parties for future financial or performance assurance under such agreements. The guarantee arrangements entered into by DPL with these third parties cover present and future obligations of AES Ohio Generation to such beneficiaries and are terminable at any time by DPL upon written notice to the beneficiaries. We had no outstanding balance of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees at December 31, 2018. The carrying amount of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees and recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $0.9 million at December 31, 2017.DP&L owns a 4.9% equity ownership interest in OVEC which is recorded using the cost method of accounting under GAAP. At December 31, 2018, DP&L could be responsible for the repayment of 4.9%, or $68.1 million, of a $1,389.6 million debt obligation comprised of both fixed and variable rate securities with maturities between 2019 and 2040. This would only happen if this electric generation company defaulted on its debt payments. At December 31, 2018, we have no knowledge of such a default.Commercial Commitments and Contractual ObligationsWe enter into various contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that may affect the liquidity of our operations. At December 31, 2018, these include: Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDPL: Long term debt $1,488.4 $103.6 $929.4 $423.0 $32.4Interest payments 274.4 86.6 145.3 15.9 26.6Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 40.2 11.4 14.8 14.0 Total contractual obligations $2,277.0 $368.9 $1,214.1 $506.5 $187.5 Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDP&L: Long term debt $593.8 $4.6 $149.4 $423.0 $16.8Interest payments 94.5 23.7 41.0 13.4 16.4Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 39.8 11.3 14.7 13.8 Total contractual obligations $1,202.1 $206.9 $329.7 $503.8 $161.7Long term debt:DPLs Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan and Capital Trust II securities, along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the Wright 44Table of ContentsPatterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments.DP&Ls Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts.See Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Interest payments:Interest payments are associated with the long term debt described above. The interest payments relating to variable rate debt are projected using the interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018.Pension and postretirement payments:At December 31, 2018, DPL, through its principal subsidiary DP&L, had estimated future benefit payments as outlined in Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. These estimated future benefit payments are projected through 2028. This amount also includes postretirement benefit costs.Electricity purchase commitments:DPL enters into long term contracts for the purchase of electricity. In general, these contracts are subject to variable quantities or prices and are terminable only in limited circumstances.Purchase orders and other contractual obligations:At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L had various other contractual obligations including non cancelable contracts to purchase goods and services with various terms and expiration dates. Due to uncertainty regarding the timing and payment of future obligations to the Service Company, and DPLs and DP&Ls ability to terminate such obligations upon 90 days notice, we have excluded such amounts in the contractual obligations table above. See Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for additional information on charges between related parties and amounts due to or from related parties.Reserve for uncertain tax positions:Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits of $3.5 million at December 31, 2018, we are unable to make a reliable estimate of the periods of cash settlement with the respective tax authorities and have not included such amounts in the contractual obligations table above.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESDPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, our management is required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on our historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting estimates are those which require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Different estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Historically, however, recorded estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Significant items subject to such judgments include: the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; unbilled revenues; the valuation of allowances for deferred income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; reserves recorded for income tax exposures; litigation; contingencies; the valuation of AROs; and assets and liabilities related to employee benefits.45Table of ContentsRevenue Recognition (including Unbilled Revenue)Revenue is primarily earned from retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recorded net of any taxes assessed on and collected from customers, which are remitted to the governmental authorities.Income TaxesWe are subject to federal and state income taxes. Our income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcome of tax examinations when determining the adequacy of our income tax provisions by considering the technical merits of the filing position, case law, and results of previous tax examinations. Accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of our income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established which we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While we believe that the amount of the tax reserves is reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may be materially different than the reserve amounts.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of the existing assets and liabilities, and their respective income tax bases. We establish a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.Regulatory Assets and LiabilitiesApplication of the provisions of GAAP relating to regulatory accounting requires us to reflect the effect of rate regulation in DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements. For regulated businesses subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation, regulatory practices that assign costs to accounting periods may differ from accounting methods generally applied by non regulated companies. When it is probable that regulators will permit the recovery of current costs through future rates charged to customers, we defer these costs as Regulatory assets that otherwise would be expensed by non regulated companies. Likewise, we recognize Regulatory liabilities when it is probable that regulators will require customer refunds through future rates and when revenue is collected from customers for expenses that are not yet incurred. Regulatory assets are amortized into expense and Regulatory liabilities are amortized into income over the recovery period authorized by the regulator.We evaluate our Regulatory assets to determine whether or not they are probable of recovery through future rates and make various assumptions in our analyses. The expectations of future recovery are generally based on orders issued by regulatory commissions or historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of a regulatory asset is determined to be less than probable, it will be expensed in the period the assessment is made. We currently believe the recovery of our Regulatory assets is probable. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.AROsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for AROs, legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets are required to be recognized at their fair value at the time those obligations are incurred. Upon initial recognition of a legal liability, costs are capitalized as part of the related long lived asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the asset. These GAAP provisions also require that components of previously recorded depreciation related to the cost of removal of assets upon future retirement, whether legal AROs or not, must be removed from a companys accumulated depreciation reserve and be reclassified as a regulatory liability. We make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to AROs. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. See Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.46Table of ContentsImpairmentsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for impairments, long lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When required, impairment losses on assets to be held and used are recognized based on the fair value of the asset group. Impairment losses on assets held for sale are recognized based on the fair value of the disposal group. We determine the fair value of these assets based upon estimates of future cash flows, market value of similar assets, if available, or independent appraisals, if required. In analyzing the fair value and recoverability using future cash flows, we make projections based on a number of assumptions and estimates of growth rates, future economic conditions, assignment of discount rates and estimates of terminal values. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the long lived asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. The measurement of impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset.Pension and Postretirement BenefitsWe account for and disclose pension and postemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for pension and other postemployment plans. These GAAP provisions require the use of assumptions, such as the discount rate for liabilities and long term rate of return on assets, in determining the obligations, annual cost, and funding requirements of the plans. See Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.Contingent and Other ObligationsDuring the conduct of our business, we are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that potentially subject us to environmental, litigation, insurance and other risks. We periodically evaluate our exposure to such risks and record estimated liabilities for those matters where a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with GAAP. In recording such estimated liabilities, we may make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to contingent and other obligations. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions and may be subject to change. We believe such estimates and assumptions are reasonable.Recently Issued Accounting PronouncementsA discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements and such discussion is incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.LEGAL AND OTHER MATTERSDiscussions of legal and other matters are provided in Item 1 Business "Environmental Matters", Item 1 Business "Competition and Regulation" and Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Such discussions are incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskWe are subject to certain market risks including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices for electricity and fluctuations in interest rates. We use various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to limit our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Our U.S. Risk Management Committee (U.S. RMC), comprised of members of senior management, is responsible for establishing risk management policies and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures related to our operations. The U.S. RMC meets on a regular basis with the objective of identifying, assessing and quantifying material risk issues and developing strategies to manage these risks.The disclosures presented in this section are based upon a number of assumptions; actual effects may differ. The safe harbor provided in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 47Table of Contents1934 shall apply to the disclosures contained in this section. For further information regarding market risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance; and we may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in interest rates.Purchased power costsDP&L conducts competitive bid auctions to purchase power for SSO service, as all of DP&Ls SSO is sourced through the competitive bid auction.As a result of DPLs exit from the majority of its coal fired generation, changes in the prices of fuel and purchased power are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Interest rate riskBecause of our normal investing and borrowing activities, our financial results are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, which we manage through our regular financing activities. We maintain both cash on deposit and investments in cash equivalents that may be affected by adverse interest rate fluctuations. DPL and DP&L have both fixed rate and variable rate long term debt. On November 21, 2016, the DP&L $200.0 million variable rate First Mortgage Bonds were hedged with floating for fixed interest rate swaps, reducing interest rate risk exposure for the term of the bonds. On January 1, 2018 the interest rate on these First Mortgage Bonds was adjusted and as a result the bonds are no longer fully hedged and are treated as variable. Market indexes can be affected by market demand, supply, market interest rates and other economic conditions. See Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. At December 31, 2018, a 1% change in interest rates would result in an approximately $14.9 million change in DPLs interest expense and an approximately $5.9 million change in DP&Ls interest expense.Principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dateThe principal amount of DPLs long term debt was $1,488.4 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan, Capital Trust II securities along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. All of DPLs existing debt was adjusted to fair value at the Merger date according to FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 805, Business Combinations. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $1,519.6 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DPLs debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes:DPL Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $99.1 $0.2 $780.2 $0.2 $0.2 $32.4 912.3 943.5 Average interest rate 6.7% 4.2% 7.2% 4.2% 4.2% 6.1% Total $1,488.4 $1,519.648Table of ContentsThe principal amount of DP&Ls long term debt was $593.8 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $593.8 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DP&Ls debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes. The DP&L debt was not revalued using push down accounting as a result of the Merger.DP&L Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $0.1 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $16.8 17.7 17.7 Average interest rate 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% Total $593.8 $593.8Equity price riskAt December 31, 2018, approximately 33% of the defined benefit pension plan assets were comprised of investments in equity securities and 67% related to investments in fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and alternative investments. The equity securities are carried at their market value of approximately $105.2 million at December 31, 2018. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $10.5 million reduction in fair value at December 31, 2018 and approximately a $1.6 million increase to the 2019 pension expense.Credit riskCredit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. We limit our credit risk by assessing the creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continue to evaluate their creditworthiness after transactions have been originated. We use the three leading corporate credit rating agencies and other current market based qualitative and quantitative data to assess the financial strength of counterparties on an ongoing basis. We may require various forms of credit assurance from counterparties to mitigate credit risk.
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Results of Operations discussion in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses significant fluctuations in operating data. DPLs common stock is wholly owned by an indirect subsidiary of AES and therefore DPL does not report earnings or dividends on a per share basis. Other information that management believes is important in understanding trends in our business is also included in this table. The total electric sales and Statements of Operations Data for DPL for 2014 and 2015 and the Balance Sheet Data for DPL for 2014 2016 are not comparable to the total electric sales and Statements of Operations Data for 2016 2018 and the Balance Sheet Data for 2017 and 2018, respectively, as these periods have not been adjusted to reflect the reclassification of the generation business, excluding Conesville, as a discontinued operation. The Statements of Operations Data for DP&L for 2014 and the total electric sales and Balance Sheet Data for DP&L for 2014 2015 are not comparable to the Statements of Operations Data for 2015 2018 and the total electric sales and Balance Sheet Data for 2016 2018, respectively, as these periods have not been adjusted to reflect the Generation Separation and its reclassification as a discontinued operation.DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions except per share amounts or as indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014Total electric sales (millions of kWh) 15,728 14,679 15,406 20,756 19,060Statements of Operations Data Revenues $775.9 $743.9 $834.2 $1,612.8 $1,716.5Goodwill impairment (a) $ $ $ $317.0 $Fixed asset impairment (b) $2.8 $ $23.9 $ $11.5Operating income / (loss) $135.5 $105.2 $119.0 $(109.9) $230.7Income / (loss) from continuing operations $31.2 $(1.5) $14.8 $(251.4) $57.2Income / (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $38.9 $(93.1) $(500.0) $12.4 $(131.8)Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $(239.0) $(74.6)Capital expenditures $103.6 $121.5 $148.5 $137.2 $118.1 Balance Sheet Data (end of period): Total assets $1,883.1 $2,049.2 $2,419.2 $3,324.7 $3,559.1Long term debt (c) $1,372.3 $1,700.2 $1,828.7 $1,420.5 $2,120.9Redeemable preferred stock of subsidiary $ $ $ $18.4 $18.4Total common shareholders equity / (deficit) $(471.7) $(584.3) $(587.6) $(80.6) $148.2(a)The goodwill impairment of $135.8 million in 2014 related to DPLER has been reclassified to discontinued operations.(b)Fixed asset impairments of $175.8 million and $835.2 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively, have been reclassified to discontinued operations.(c)Excluded from this line are the current maturities of long term debt.DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions except per share amounts or as indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014Total electric sales (millions of kWh) 15,194 14,401 15,008 26,394 28,634Statements of Operations Data Revenues $738.7 $720.0 $808.0 $857.0 $1,668.3Fixed asset impairment (a) $ $ $ $ $Operating income $135.1 $122.1 $169.0 $222.2 $188.8Income from continuing operations $86.7 $57.4 $97.6 $130.0 $114.1Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ $(40.4) $(870.3) $(23.6) $Net income / (loss) attributable to common stock $86.7 $17.0 $(773.4) $105.5 $114.1Capital expenditures $93.1 $101.7 $128.3 $127.0 $114.2 Balance Sheet Data (end of period): Total assets $1,819.6 $1,695.9 $2,035.1 $3,359.6 $3,328.8Long term debt (b) $581.5 $642.0 $731.5 $313.6 $868.2Redeemable preferred stock $ $ $ $22.9 $22.9Total common shareholders equity $445.3 $330.7 $362.3 $1,212.7 $1,143.4 Number of shareholders preferred stock 180 186(a)Fixed asset impairment of $1,353.5 million in 2016 has been reclassified to discontinued operations.(b)Excluded from this line are the current maturities of long term debt.26Table of ContentsItem 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with DPLs audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto and DP&Ls audited Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the results suggested by these forward looking statements. See Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Form 10 K and Item 1A Risk Factors. For a list of certain abbreviations or acronyms in this discussion, see Glossary of Terms at the beginning of this Form 10 K.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYDPLDPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $38.4 million, or 591%, from a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.9Lower interest expense due to debt payments made in 2017 and 2018 12.0Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (25.7)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (11.7)Other (6.0)Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $38.4DPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined by $18.9 million, or 152%, from pre tax income of $12.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.4)Increase due to lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 6.7Fixed asset impairment recorded in 2016 on Conesville facility 23.9Other 0.9Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $(18.9)DP&LDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $15.9 million, or 18%, from pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $104.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.7Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (24.6)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (12.4)Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery (8.1)Increase in insurance and claims costs (4.0)Other (4.6)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $15.927Table of ContentsDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined $55.1 million, or 38%, from pre tax income of $143.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.5)Increase in General taxes driven by higher property taxes (8.3)Lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 7.9Other (4.2)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $(55.1)RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DPLDPLs results of operations include the results of its subsidiaries, including the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. A separate specific discussion of the results of operations for DP&L is presented elsewhere in this report.Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $656.9 $641.5 $738.5Wholesale 52.0 31.9 27.1RTO revenue 43.2 47.4 46.5RTO capacity revenues 14.4 12.1 11.0Other revenues 9.4 11.0 11.1Total revenues 775.9 743.9 834.2Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 17.5 9.0 17.4Purchased power: Purchased power 244.9 231.4 258.1RTO charges 57.8 57.5 59.7RTO capacity charges 2.3 2.1 1.3Net purchased power cost 305.0 291.0 319.1 Total cost of revenues 322.5 300.0 336.5 Gross margin 453.4 443.9 497.7 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 156.8 186.1 213.5Depreciation and amortization 73.1 76.1 73.6General taxes 73.5 77.1 68.4Fixed asset impairment 2.8 23.9Gain on asset disposal (0.6) (0.7)Loss on disposal of business (Note 16) 11.7 Total operating expenses 317.9 338.7 378.7 Operating income 135.5 105.2 119.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (98.0) (110.0) (107.4)Charge for early redemption of debt (6.5) (3.3) (3.1)Other income 0.9 1.6 3.9Other expense, net (103.6) (111.7) (106.6) Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax (a) $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.28Table of ContentsDPL RevenuesRetail customers, especially residential and commercial customers, consume more electricity on warmer and colder days. Therefore, our retail sales volume is affected by the number of heating and cooling degree days occurring during a year. Cooling degree days typically have a more significant effect than heating degree days since some residential customers do not use electricity to heat their homes.Degree days Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Heating degree days (a) 5,547 4,805 5,034Cooling degree days (a) 1,341 890 1,213(a)Heating and cooling degree days are a measure of the relative heating or cooling required for a home or business. The heating degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is below 65 degrees Fahrenheit. For example, if the average temperature on March 20th was 40 degrees Fahrenheit, the heating degrees for that day would be the 25 degree difference between 65 degrees and 40 degrees. Similarly, cooling degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is above 65 degrees Fahrenheit.DPLs electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DPL Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 1,289 816 907Total electric sales 15,728 14,679 15,406 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DPL retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within DPL wholesale electric sales are DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC and the generation output of Conesville.During the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $32.0 million to $775.9 million from $743.9 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown above by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.9 Total retail change 15.4 Wholesale Increase due to increased volumes sold by Conesville of 93% and higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices20.1 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (1.9) Other Other revenues (1.6) Net change in Revenues $32.0 29Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $90.3 million to $743.9 million from $834.2 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (69.2) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown above by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.4) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.0) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased volumes sold by Conesville of 30% and decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 4.8 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 2.0 Other Other revenues (0.1) Net change in Revenues $(90.3)DPL Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $22.5 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs Increase due to higher internal generation at Conesville of 93% $8.5 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (12.2)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 25.7Total purchased power change 13.5 RTO charges 0.3RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 14.0 Net change in Cost of Revenues $22.530Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $36.5 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015 being collected in 2016, and decreased internal generation at Conesville of 30% $(8.4) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (20.0)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (6.7)Total purchased power change (26.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (2.2)RTO capacity charges 0.8Net change in purchased power (28.1) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(36.5)DPL Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $29.3 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Decrease in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan (2.2)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 7.3Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net (2.5)Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(29.3)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $27.4 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 3.3Increase in legal and other consulting costs 2.9Other, net (3.0)Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(27.4)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DPL Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $3.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a credit recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018 related to the reduction of ARO assets for Conesville. The ARO assets were previously fully impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.5 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.31Table of ContentsDPL General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.6 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018 and the unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property taxes.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.7 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, an unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.4 million increase in other general taxes.DPL Fixed asset ImpairmentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $2.8 million for Conesville, as it was determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $23.9 million. In the fourth quarter of 2016, DPL performed a long lived asset impairment analysis for Conesville and determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.DPL Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a loss on disposal of business of $11.7 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility. DPL Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Interest expense decreased $12.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DPL and DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Interest expense increased $2.6 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DPL Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $6.5 million primarily due to the make whole premium payment of $5.1 million related to the $101.0 million partial redemption, in April 2018, of the DPL 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.3 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.1 million primarily due to the February 2016 make whole premium of $2.4 million associated with the early retirement of $73.0 million of the 6.5% Senior Notes due in 2016.DPL Income Tax ExpenseIncome tax benefit of $5.0 million in 2017 changed to expense of $0.7 million in 2018. This change was primarily driven by the increase in Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax in the current year, partially offset by the decrease in federal tax rate from 35% to 21% and tax benefits associated with the amortization of the impact of the lower income tax rate resulting from the TCJA on our deferred tax balances.Income tax benefit increased $2.6 million from $2.4 million in 2016 to $5.0 million in 2017. This increase was primarily due to a pre tax loss in 2017 compared to pre tax income in 2016 and the one time re measurement of deferred tax expense related to the recent enactment of the TCJA.DPL Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, DPL recorded income / (loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $38.9 million, $(93.1) million and $(500.0) million, respectively. This income / (loss) relates to the generation components of Stuart, Killen, Miami Fort, Zimmer, and the Peaker assets, which were disposed of 32Table of Contentseither by sale or retirement within the last year. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT DPL Inc.Beginning with the second quarter of 2018, DPL has presented the results of operations of Miami Fort Station, Zimmer Station, the Peaker Assets, Stuart Station and Killen Station as discontinued operations as a group of components for all periods presented. For more information, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements. AES Ohio Generation now only has operating activity coming from its undivided ownership interest in Conesville, which does not meet the threshold to be a separate reportable operating segment. Because of this, DPL now manages its business through only one reportable operating segment, the Utility segment. The primary segment performance measure is income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax as management has concluded that this measure best reflects the underlying business performance of DPL and is the most relevant measure considered in DPLs internal evaluation of the financial performance of its segments. The Utility segment is discussed further below:Utility SegmentThe Utility segment is comprised primarily of DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses, which distribute electricity to residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. DP&L distributes electricity to more than 525,000 retail customers who are located in a 6,000 square mile area of West Central Ohio. DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses are subject to rate regulation by federal and state regulators. Accordingly, DP&L applies the accounting standards for regulated operations to its electric transmission and distribution businesses and records regulatory assets when incurred costs are expected to be recovered in future customer rates, and regulatory liabilities when current cost recoveries in customer rates relate to expected future costs. The Utility segment includes revenues and costs associated with our investment in OVEC and the historical results of DP&Ls Beckjord Facility, which was closed in 2014 and transferred to a third party in the first quarter of 2018, and the Hutchings EGU, which was closed in 2013. These assets did not transfer to AES Ohio Generation as part of DP&Ls Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. Thus, they are grouped within the Utility segment for segment reporting purposes. In addition, regulatory deferrals and collections, which include fuel deferrals in historical periods, are included in the Utility segment.Included within the Other column are other businesses that do not meet the GAAP requirements for disclosure as reportable segments as well as certain corporate costs, which include interest expense on DPLs long term debt and adjustments related to purchase accounting from the Merger. DPLs undivided interest in Conesville is now included within the "Other" column as it no longer meets the requirement for disclosure as a reportable operating segment, since the results of operations of the other generation plants are now presented as discontinued operations. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales and profits are eliminated in consolidation. Certain shared and corporate costs are allocated among reporting segments.See Note 13 Business Segments of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding DPLs reportable segment.The following table presents DPLs Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax by business segment: Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Utility $104.4 $88.5 $143.0Other (72.5) (95.0) (130.6)Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Utility SegmentThe results of operations of the Utility segment for DPL are identical in all material respects and for all periods presented to those of DP&L, which are included in Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Statement of Operations Highlights DP&L) of this Form 10 K.33Table of ContentsRESULTS OF OPERATIONS DP&LStatement of Operations Highlights DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $657.9 $642.6 $739.8Wholesale 29.9 23.6 16.1RTO revenue 43.1 47.2 45.7RTO capacity revenues 7.8 6.6 6.4Total revenues 738.7 720.0 808.0Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 2.4 0.5 5.3Purchased power: Purchased power 243.5 230.6 258.3RTO charges 55.6 57.2 58.6RTO capacity charges 2.2 2.0 (0.2)Net purchased power cost 301.3 289.8 316.7Total cost of revenues 303.7 290.3 322.0 Gross margin 435.0 429.7 486.0 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 139.7 156.5 178.4Depreciation and amortization 74.5 75.3 71.0General taxes 73.1 76.3 68.0Loss / (gain) on asset disposal 0.2 (0.5) (0.4)Loss on disposal of business (Note 15) 12.4 Total operating expenses 299.9 307.6 317.0 Operating income 135.1 122.1 169.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (27.3) (30.5) (24.7)Charge for early redemption of debt (0.6) (1.1) (0.5)Other income (2.8) (2.0) (0.2)Total other expense, net (30.7) (33.6) (25.4) Income from continuing operations before income tax (a) $104.4 $88.5 $143.6(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.DP&Ls electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DP&L Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 755 538 509Total electric sales 15,194 14,401 15,008 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DP&L retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within wholesale electric sales is DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC.34Table of ContentsDP&L RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $18.7 million to $738.7 million from $720.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.7 Other miscellaneous 0.1Total retail change 15.3 Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices 6.3 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (2.9) Net change in Revenues $18.7During the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $88.0 million to $720.0 million from $808.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.6Net change in retail rate (69.3) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.5) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.2) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 7.5 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 1.7 Net change in Revenues $(88.0)35Table of ContentsDP&L Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $13.4 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs $1.9 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (11.7)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 24.6Total purchased power change 12.9 RTO charges (1.6)RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 11.5 Net change in Cost of Revenues $13.4During the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $31.7 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015, being collected in 2016 $(4.8) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (19.8)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (7.9)Total purchased power change (27.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (1.4)RTO capacity charges 2.2Net change in purchased power (26.9) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(31.7)DP&L Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $16.8 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 8.1Increase in insurance and claims costs 4.0Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net 3.0Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(16.8)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.36Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $21.9 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in legal and other consulting costs 4.5Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 4.0Other, net 0.2Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(21.9)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with this program resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DP&L Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.8 million compared to the prior year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.3 million compared to the prior year. This change was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.DP&L General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.3 million. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, a 2017 unfavorable true up of $1.1 million for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.0 million increase in other general taxes.DP&L Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a Loss on disposal of business of $12.4 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility.DP&L Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, interest expense decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, interest expense increased $5.8 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DP&L Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $0.6 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$1.1 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$0.5 million.DP&L Income Tax ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Income tax expense decreased $13.4 million from $31.1 million in 2017 to $17.7 million in 2018 primarily due to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% as a result of the passage of the TCJA and the amortization of excess deferred taxes resulting from the TCJA, partially offset by higher pre tax income in the current year versus the prior year.37Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Income tax expense decreased $14.9 million from $46.0 million in 2016 to $31.1 million in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in pre tax income in the current year, a decrease in the depreciation of AFUDC Equity, and a tax reserve that was recorded in the prior year. Partially offsetting the decrease was a prior year deferred tax adjustment that was not required in the current year.DP&L Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, DP&L recorded losses from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $40.4 million and $870.3 million, respectively. These losses relate to the discontinued DP&L Generation segment, which was transferred to AES Ohio Generation through Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. See Note 14 Generation Separation in Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.KEY TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIESFollowing the issuance of the DRO in September 2018 and the resulting changes to the decoupling rider effective January 1, 2019, we expect that our financial results will no longer be driven by retail demand and weather but will be impacted by customer growth within our service territory. See further discussion on these changes in Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. In addition, DPLs and DP&Ls financial results are likely to be driven by other factors including, but not limited to:regulatory outcomes;the passage of new legislation, implementation of regulations or other changes in regulations;timely recovery of transmission and distribution expenditures; andexiting generation assets currently owned by AES Ohio Generation.OperationalAs part of our announced plan to exit our generation businesses, on May 31, 2018, we retired the Stuart and Killen EGUs. In addition, we closed on a sale of our Peaker assets in March 2018. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In October 2018, AEP, the operator of the co owned Conesville EGU, announced that Unit 4 would close by May 2020. For additional information on these events and DPLs coal fired facilities, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.Macroeconomic and PoliticalUnited States Tax Law ReformIn December 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the TCJA. The legislation significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates and introducing new limitations on interest expense deductions beginning in 2018. These changes will materially impact our effective tax rate in future periods. Specific provisions of the TCJA and their potential impacts on us are noted below. Our interpretation of the TCJA may change as the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service issue additional guidance. Such changes may be material.Lower Tax Rate The corporate tax rate decreased from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018. In addition to deferred tax remeasurement impacts, the lower tax rate resulted in the recognition, at December 31, 2017, of a regulatory liability at DP&L. The regulatory liability reflects deferred taxes that will flow back to ratepayers over time. For further details, see Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and "Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.SAB 118 As further explained in Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements, we have concluded our analysis of the implementation impacts of the TCJA and included adjustments to our previous estimates in accordance with the guidance of SAB 118.Limitation on Interest Expense Deductions The TCJA introduced a new limitation on the deductibility of net interest expense beginning January 1, 2018. The deduction is limited to interest income, plus 30 percent of tax basis EBITDA through 2021 (30 percent of EBIT beginning January 1, 2022). This determination is made at the 38Table of Contentsconsolidated group level. The limitation does not apply to interest expense attributable to regulated utility property. The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service have released proposed regulations to clarify how the exception will apply to regulated utility holding companies. These proposed regulations are prospective; we have not adopted them for 2018.Cost Recovery The TCJA amended depreciation rules to provide full expensing (100% bonus depreciation) for assets that commence construction and are placed in service before January 1, 2023. This provision is phased down by 20 percent ratably through 2027. The immediate full expensing provision is elective, but it does not apply to regulated utility property. This change is not expected to impact our effective tax rate; however, if elected, it could impact taxable income and cash taxes in future periods.State Taxes The reactions of the individual states to federal tax reform is still evolving. These state and municipalities will assess whether and how the federal changes will be incorporated into their tax legislation.On January 10, 2018 the PUCO initiated a proceeding to consider the impacts of the TCJA to determine the appropriate course of action to pass benefits resulting from the legislation on to ratepayers. The PUCO also directed Ohio utilities to record deferred liabilities for the estimated reduction in federal income tax resulting from the TCJA beginning January 1, 2018. Under the terms of the ESP, DPL will not make tax sharing payments and if our rates are reduced as a result of the TCJA, DPLs cash flows could be adversely affected. See Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.LIBOR Phase OutIn July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced the phase out of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee within the Federal Reserve is responsible for the transition from LIBOR to a new benchmark replacement rate. While we maintain financial instruments that use LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark, the full impact of the phase out is uncertain until a new replacement benchmark is determined andimplementation plans are more fully developed.Regulatory EnvironmentFor a comprehensive discussion of the market structure and regulation of DPL and DP&L, see Part I, Item 1 Business Competition and Regulation.In December 2018, DP&L filed a Distribution Modernization Plan (DMP) with the PUCO proposing to invest $576.0 million in capital projects over the next 10 years. There are eight principal components of DP&Ls DMP: 1) Smart Meters, 2) Self Healing Grid, 3) Customer Engagement, 4) Enhancing Sustainability and Embracing Innovation. 5) Telecommunications, 6) Physical and Cyber Security, 7) Governance and Analytics, and 8) Grid Modernization R&D.On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.For more information regarding DP&Ls ESP, see Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYCash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for DPL and DP&L was $111.7 million and $66.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018. At that date, neither DPL nor DP&L had short term investments. DPL and DP&L had aggregate principal amounts of debt outstanding of $1,488.4 million and $593.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018.Approximately $103.6 million of DPLs debt and $4.6 million of DP&Ls debt matures within the next twelve months, which we expect to repay using a combination of cash on hand, net cash provided by operating activities and or net proceeds from the issuance of new debt. From time to time, we may elect to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise when management believes such repurchases are favorable to make. The amounts involved in any such repurchases may be material.We depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage our liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations could affect the cash flows and results of operations of our business.DP&L must first seek approval from the PUCO to issue new stocks, bonds, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness. Annually, DP&L must receive authority to issue and assume liability on short term debt, not to exceed 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.401 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L received an order from the PUCO granting authority through December 31, 2019 to, among other things, issue up to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of short term indebtedness. DP&L must also receive authority to issue and assume liability on long term debt, in excess of 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.40 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L last received approval in 2016 to, among other things, issue up to $455.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 30 years at an interest rate not to exceed 6.60%. DP&L also has restrictions on the amount of new debt that may be issued due to contractual obligations of AES and by financial covenant restrictions under existing debt obligations. DP&L does not believe such restrictions will be a limiting factor in our ability to issue debt in the ordinary course of prudent business operations. In 2019, DP&L filed for approval to, among other things, issue up to $425.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 40 years at an interest rate not to exceed 5.75%.CASH FLOWSDPLs financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements include the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.Cash Flow Analysis DPL:DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities 129.9 (39.3) (141.5)Net cash used in financing activities (250.5) (149.6) (167.1)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 1.5 27.5 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 86.8 (29.7) (25.7)Balance at beginning of year 24.9 54.6 80.3Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year $111.7 $24.9 $54.6DPL Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $164.7 $390.6Depreciation and amortization 55.7 110.5 137.9 (54.8) (27.4)Impairment expenses 2.8 175.8 859.0 (173.0) (683.2)Charge for early redemption of debt 6.5 3.3 3.1 3.2 0.2Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 2.0 (21.8) (359.8) 23.8 338.0Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 137.1 173.2 155.0 (36.1) 18.2Net change in operating assets and liabilities 68.8 (41.5) 112.1 110.3 (153.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1 $74.2 $(135.4)39Table of ContentsFiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accrued taxes payable is primarily due to a prior year income tax benefit and current year income tax expense $41.1Increase from accounts receivable is primarily due to 2018 collections of PJM transmission enhancement settlement and remaining amounts due from partners in jointly owned stations 27.6Increase from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and lower coal purchases in 2018 20.0Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, is primarily due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from pension, retiree and other benefits relates to higher contributions and lower accruals of net periodic benefit costs in 2018 (8.1)Increase from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2018 7.1Other 8.1Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $110.3Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(51.4)Decrease from accrued taxes payable primarily due to incurring current income tax expense in 2016 compared to a current tax benefit in 2017 (48.8)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Decrease from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2016 (24.3)Other (1.3)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(153.6)DPL Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities primarily relates to proceeds from the sale of business of $234.9 million, primarily due to the sale of the Peaker assets, and proceeds of $10.6 million, related to the June transmission swap with Duke and AEP, partially offset by capital expenditures of $103.6 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $121.5 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.3 million, and $70.1 million of proceeds from the sale of the Miami Fort and Zimmer stations.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $148.5 million, partially offset by $6.3 million of insurance proceeds.DPL Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $240.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net repayments on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $159.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net borrowings on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $577.8 million of long term debt, and the redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of new long term debt of $442.8 million.40Table of ContentsCash Flow Analysis DP&L:DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2Net cash used in investing activities (96.9) (89.5) (121.6)Net cash used in financing activities (38.3) (68.9) (135.2)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 27.0 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 60.6 4.0 (3.8)Balance at beginning of year 5.6 1.6 5.4Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of year $66.2 $5.6 $1.6DP&L Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $86.7 $17.0 $(772.7) $69.7 $789.7Depreciation and amortization 77.6 88.3 123.2 (10.7) (34.9)Impairment expenses 66.3 1,353.5 (66.3) (1,287.2)Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 29.5 23.9 (481.3) 5.6 505.2Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 193.8 195.5 222.7 (1.7) (27.2)Net change in operating assets and liabilities 2.0 (60.1) 14.5 62.1 (74.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2 $60.4 $(101.8)Fiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and less generation related payments, mostly related to coal purchases $52.5Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from inventory primarily due to no longer having coal purchases in 2018 (10.6)Other 5.7Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $62.1Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(63.3)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Increase from accounts receivable primarily due to timing of collections 22.9Other (6.4)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(74.6)DP&L Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $93.1 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million, partially offset by proceeds of $10.6 million related to the June transmission asset swap with Duke and AEP. During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $101.7 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $128.3 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $6.1 million.41Table of ContentsDP&L Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $64.5 million of long term debt, returns of capital paid to parent of $43.8 million, and $10.0 million net repayments on revolving credit facilities during the year, partially offset by a $80.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to retirement of $104.5 million of long term debt and dividends and return of capital paid to parent of $39.0 million, partially offset by a $70.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $445.3 million of long term debt, $70.0 million in dividends paid on common stock to parent, related party repayments, net of related party borrowings, of $30.0 million, and redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of $442.8 million of new long term debt.LiquidityWe expect our existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs. Our business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and carrying costs, potential margin requirements related to energy hedges, taxes and dividend payments. For 2019 and subsequent years, we expect to satisfy these requirements with a combination of cash from operations and funds from debt financing as our internal liquidity needs and market conditions warrant. We also expect that the borrowing capacity under bank credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements during those periods. In addition, DP&Ls 2017 ESP provides for a DMR, which will be used for debt obligations at DPL and DP&L. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters for more information.At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L have access to the following revolving credit facilities:$ in millions Type Maturity Commitment Amounts available as of December 31, 2018DPL Revolving July 2020 $205.0 $191.0 DP&L Revolving July 2020 175.0 173.9 $380.0 $364.9DP&Ls revolving credit facility has a commitment of $175.0 million, with a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DP&L the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $100.0 million and extending the term of the facility from May 2018 to July 2020. At December 31, 2018, DP&L had nothing drawn under this facility and had one letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million outstanding, with the remaining $173.9 million available to DP&L. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.DPL has a revolving credit facility of $205.0 million, with a $200.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DPL the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $95.0 million. This facility is secured by a pledge of common stock that DPL owns in DP&L, limited to the amount permitted to be pledged under certain Indentures dated October 3, 2011 and October 6, 2014 between DPL and Wells Fargo Bank, NA and U.S. Bank National Association, respectively, as Trustee and a limited recourse guarantee by AES Ohio Generation secured by assets of AES Ohio Generation. DPL further secured the credit facility through a leasehold mortgage on additional assets of AES Ohio Generation. The facility expires in July 2020; however, DPLs credit facility has a springing maturity feature providing that if, before July 1, 2019, DPL has not refinanced its senior unsecured bonds due October 2019 to have a maturity date that is at least six months later than July 31, 2020, then the maturity of this facility shall be July 1, 2019. At December 31, 2018, there were five letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $14.0 million outstanding under this facility, and nothing borrowed on the facility, with the remaining $191.0 million available to DPL. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.42Table of ContentsCapital RequirementsConstruction Additions Actual Projected$ in millions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021DPL $140 $108 $84 $143 $223 $262 DP&L $88 $83 $82 $140 $221 $260Capital projects are subject to continuing review and are revised in light of changes in financial and economic conditions, load forecasts, legislative and regulatory developments and changing environmental laws, rules and regulations, among other factors.DPL is projecting to spend an estimated $628.0 million in capital projects for the period 2019 through 2021, which includes expected spending under DP&Ls Distribution Modernization Plan ("DMP") filed with the PUCO in December 2018. DP&Ls 2017 ESP also provided for a DMR to pay debt obligations at DPL and DP&L and position DP&L to modernize and or maintain its transmission and distribution infrastructure. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information. On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.DP&L is subject to the mandatory reliability standards of NERC and Reliability First Corporation (RFC), one of the eight NERC regions, of which DP&L is a member. NERC has recently changed the definition of the Bulk Electric System to include 100 kV and above facilities, thus expanding the facilities to which the reliability standards apply. DP&Ls 138 kV facilities were previously not subject to these reliability standards. Accordingly, DP&L anticipates spending approximately $221.0 million within the next five years to reinforce its 138 kV system to comply with these new NERC standards. Our ability to complete capital projects and the reliability of future service will be affected by our financial condition, the availability of internal funds and the reasonable cost of external funds. We expect to finance our construction additions with a combination of cash on hand, short term financing, long term debt and cash flows from operations.Debt CovenantsFor information regarding our long term debt covenants, see Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Debt RatingsThe following table outlines the debt ratings and outlook for DPL and DP&L, along with the effective or affirmed date of each rating. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB(a) / BBB (b) A (c) Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 (b) A3 (c) Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB (b) BBB+ (c) Stable March 2018(a)Rating relates to DPLs senior secured debt.(b)Rating relates to DPLs senior unsecured debt.(c)Rating relates to DP&Ls senior secured debt.Credit RatingsThe following table outlines the credit ratings (issuer/corporate rating) and outlook for each company, along with the effective or affirmed dates of each rating and outlook for DPL and DP&L. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB BBB Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 Baa2 Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB BBB Stable March 201843Table of ContentsIf the rating agencies were to reduce our debt or credit ratings, our borrowing costs may increase, our potential pool of investors and funding resources may be reduced, and we may be required to post additional collateral under certain contracts. These events may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, any such reduction in our debt or credit ratings may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding debt securities. Non investment grade companies may experience higher costs to issue new securities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsDPL GuaranteesIn the normal course of business, DPL enters into various agreements with its wholly owned subsidiary, AES Ohio Generation, providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. These agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness otherwise attributed to these subsidiaries on a stand alone basis, thereby facilitating the extension of sufficient credit to accomplish this subsidiarys intended commercial purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL did not incur any losses related to the guarantees of these obligations and we believe it is unlikely that DPL would be required to perform or incur any losses in the future associated with any of the above guarantees.At December 31, 2018, DPL had $23.6 million of guarantees on behalf of AES Ohio Generation to third parties for future financial or performance assurance under such agreements. The guarantee arrangements entered into by DPL with these third parties cover present and future obligations of AES Ohio Generation to such beneficiaries and are terminable at any time by DPL upon written notice to the beneficiaries. We had no outstanding balance of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees at December 31, 2018. The carrying amount of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees and recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $0.9 million at December 31, 2017.DP&L owns a 4.9% equity ownership interest in OVEC which is recorded using the cost method of accounting under GAAP. At December 31, 2018, DP&L could be responsible for the repayment of 4.9%, or $68.1 million, of a $1,389.6 million debt obligation comprised of both fixed and variable rate securities with maturities between 2019 and 2040. This would only happen if this electric generation company defaulted on its debt payments. At December 31, 2018, we have no knowledge of such a default.Commercial Commitments and Contractual ObligationsWe enter into various contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that may affect the liquidity of our operations. At December 31, 2018, these include: Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDPL: Long term debt $1,488.4 $103.6 $929.4 $423.0 $32.4Interest payments 274.4 86.6 145.3 15.9 26.6Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 40.2 11.4 14.8 14.0 Total contractual obligations $2,277.0 $368.9 $1,214.1 $506.5 $187.5 Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDP&L: Long term debt $593.8 $4.6 $149.4 $423.0 $16.8Interest payments 94.5 23.7 41.0 13.4 16.4Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 39.8 11.3 14.7 13.8 Total contractual obligations $1,202.1 $206.9 $329.7 $503.8 $161.7Long term debt:DPLs Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan and Capital Trust II securities, along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the Wright 44Table of ContentsPatterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments.DP&Ls Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts.See Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Interest payments:Interest payments are associated with the long term debt described above. The interest payments relating to variable rate debt are projected using the interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018.Pension and postretirement payments:At December 31, 2018, DPL, through its principal subsidiary DP&L, had estimated future benefit payments as outlined in Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. These estimated future benefit payments are projected through 2028. This amount also includes postretirement benefit costs.Electricity purchase commitments:DPL enters into long term contracts for the purchase of electricity. In general, these contracts are subject to variable quantities or prices and are terminable only in limited circumstances.Purchase orders and other contractual obligations:At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L had various other contractual obligations including non cancelable contracts to purchase goods and services with various terms and expiration dates. Due to uncertainty regarding the timing and payment of future obligations to the Service Company, and DPLs and DP&Ls ability to terminate such obligations upon 90 days notice, we have excluded such amounts in the contractual obligations table above. See Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for additional information on charges between related parties and amounts due to or from related parties.Reserve for uncertain tax positions:Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits of $3.5 million at December 31, 2018, we are unable to make a reliable estimate of the periods of cash settlement with the respective tax authorities and have not included such amounts in the contractual obligations table above.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESDPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, our management is required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on our historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting estimates are those which require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Different estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Historically, however, recorded estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Significant items subject to such judgments include: the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; unbilled revenues; the valuation of allowances for deferred income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; reserves recorded for income tax exposures; litigation; contingencies; the valuation of AROs; and assets and liabilities related to employee benefits.45Table of ContentsRevenue Recognition (including Unbilled Revenue)Revenue is primarily earned from retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recorded net of any taxes assessed on and collected from customers, which are remitted to the governmental authorities.Income TaxesWe are subject to federal and state income taxes. Our income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcome of tax examinations when determining the adequacy of our income tax provisions by considering the technical merits of the filing position, case law, and results of previous tax examinations. Accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of our income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established which we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While we believe that the amount of the tax reserves is reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may be materially different than the reserve amounts.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of the existing assets and liabilities, and their respective income tax bases. We establish a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.Regulatory Assets and LiabilitiesApplication of the provisions of GAAP relating to regulatory accounting requires us to reflect the effect of rate regulation in DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements. For regulated businesses subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation, regulatory practices that assign costs to accounting periods may differ from accounting methods generally applied by non regulated companies. When it is probable that regulators will permit the recovery of current costs through future rates charged to customers, we defer these costs as Regulatory assets that otherwise would be expensed by non regulated companies. Likewise, we recognize Regulatory liabilities when it is probable that regulators will require customer refunds through future rates and when revenue is collected from customers for expenses that are not yet incurred. Regulatory assets are amortized into expense and Regulatory liabilities are amortized into income over the recovery period authorized by the regulator.We evaluate our Regulatory assets to determine whether or not they are probable of recovery through future rates and make various assumptions in our analyses. The expectations of future recovery are generally based on orders issued by regulatory commissions or historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of a regulatory asset is determined to be less than probable, it will be expensed in the period the assessment is made. We currently believe the recovery of our Regulatory assets is probable. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.AROsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for AROs, legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets are required to be recognized at their fair value at the time those obligations are incurred. Upon initial recognition of a legal liability, costs are capitalized as part of the related long lived asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the asset. These GAAP provisions also require that components of previously recorded depreciation related to the cost of removal of assets upon future retirement, whether legal AROs or not, must be removed from a companys accumulated depreciation reserve and be reclassified as a regulatory liability. We make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to AROs. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. See Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.46Table of ContentsImpairmentsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for impairments, long lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When required, impairment losses on assets to be held and used are recognized based on the fair value of the asset group. Impairment losses on assets held for sale are recognized based on the fair value of the disposal group. We determine the fair value of these assets based upon estimates of future cash flows, market value of similar assets, if available, or independent appraisals, if required. In analyzing the fair value and recoverability using future cash flows, we make projections based on a number of assumptions and estimates of growth rates, future economic conditions, assignment of discount rates and estimates of terminal values. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the long lived asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. The measurement of impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset.Pension and Postretirement BenefitsWe account for and disclose pension and postemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for pension and other postemployment plans. These GAAP provisions require the use of assumptions, such as the discount rate for liabilities and long term rate of return on assets, in determining the obligations, annual cost, and funding requirements of the plans. See Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.Contingent and Other ObligationsDuring the conduct of our business, we are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that potentially subject us to environmental, litigation, insurance and other risks. We periodically evaluate our exposure to such risks and record estimated liabilities for those matters where a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with GAAP. In recording such estimated liabilities, we may make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to contingent and other obligations. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions and may be subject to change. We believe such estimates and assumptions are reasonable.Recently Issued Accounting PronouncementsA discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements and such discussion is incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.LEGAL AND OTHER MATTERSDiscussions of legal and other matters are provided in Item 1 Business "Environmental Matters", Item 1 Business "Competition and Regulation" and Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Such discussions are incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskWe are subject to certain market risks including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices for electricity and fluctuations in interest rates. We use various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to limit our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Our U.S. Risk Management Committee (U.S. RMC), comprised of members of senior management, is responsible for establishing risk management policies and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures related to our operations. The U.S. RMC meets on a regular basis with the objective of identifying, assessing and quantifying material risk issues and developing strategies to manage these risks.The disclosures presented in this section are based upon a number of assumptions; actual effects may differ. The safe harbor provided in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 47Table of Contents1934 shall apply to the disclosures contained in this section. For further information regarding market risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance; and we may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in interest rates.Purchased power costsDP&L conducts competitive bid auctions to purchase power for SSO service, as all of DP&Ls SSO is sourced through the competitive bid auction.As a result of DPLs exit from the majority of its coal fired generation, changes in the prices of fuel and purchased power are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Interest rate riskBecause of our normal investing and borrowing activities, our financial results are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, which we manage through our regular financing activities. We maintain both cash on deposit and investments in cash equivalents that may be affected by adverse interest rate fluctuations. DPL and DP&L have both fixed rate and variable rate long term debt. On November 21, 2016, the DP&L $200.0 million variable rate First Mortgage Bonds were hedged with floating for fixed interest rate swaps, reducing interest rate risk exposure for the term of the bonds. On January 1, 2018 the interest rate on these First Mortgage Bonds was adjusted and as a result the bonds are no longer fully hedged and are treated as variable. Market indexes can be affected by market demand, supply, market interest rates and other economic conditions. See Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. At December 31, 2018, a 1% change in interest rates would result in an approximately $14.9 million change in DPLs interest expense and an approximately $5.9 million change in DP&Ls interest expense.Principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dateThe principal amount of DPLs long term debt was $1,488.4 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan, Capital Trust II securities along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. All of DPLs existing debt was adjusted to fair value at the Merger date according to FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 805, Business Combinations. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $1,519.6 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DPLs debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes:DPL Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $99.1 $0.2 $780.2 $0.2 $0.2 $32.4 912.3 943.5 Average interest rate 6.7% 4.2% 7.2% 4.2% 4.2% 6.1% Total $1,488.4 $1,519.648Table of ContentsThe principal amount of DP&Ls long term debt was $593.8 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $593.8 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DP&Ls debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes. The DP&L debt was not revalued using push down accounting as a result of the Merger.DP&L Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $0.1 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $16.8 17.7 17.7 Average interest rate 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% Total $593.8 $593.8Equity price riskAt December 31, 2018, approximately 33% of the defined benefit pension plan assets were comprised of investments in equity securities and 67% related to investments in fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and alternative investments. The equity securities are carried at their market value of approximately $105.2 million at December 31, 2018. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $10.5 million reduction in fair value at December 31, 2018 and approximately a $1.6 million increase to the 2019 pension expense.Credit riskCredit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. We limit our credit risk by assessing the creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continue to evaluate their creditworthiness after transactions have been originated. We use the three leading corporate credit rating agencies and other current market based qualitative and quantitative data to assess the financial strength of counterparties on an ongoing basis. We may require various forms of credit assurance from counterparties to mitigate credit risk.
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses significant fluctuations in operating data. DPLs common stock is wholly owned by an indirect subsidiary of AES and therefore DPL does not report earnings or dividends on a per share basis. Other information that management believes is important in understanding trends in our business is also included in this table. The total electric sales and Statements of Operations Data for DPL for 2014 and 2015 and the Balance Sheet Data for DPL for 2014 2016 are not comparable to the total electric sales and Statements of Operations Data for 2016 2018 and the Balance Sheet Data for 2017 and 2018, respectively, as these periods have not been adjusted to reflect the reclassification of the generation business, excluding Conesville, as a discontinued operation. The Statements of Operations Data for DP&L for 2014 and the total electric sales and Balance Sheet Data for DP&L for 2014 2015 are not comparable to the Statements of Operations Data for 2015 2018 and the total electric sales and Balance Sheet Data for 2016 2018, respectively, as these periods have not been adjusted to reflect the Generation Separation and its reclassification as a discontinued operation.DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions except per share amounts or as indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014Total electric sales (millions of kWh) 15,728 14,679 15,406 20,756 19,060Statements of Operations Data Revenues $775.9 $743.9 $834.2 $1,612.8 $1,716.5Goodwill impairment (a) $ $ $ $317.0 $Fixed asset impairment (b) $2.8 $ $23.9 $ $11.5Operating income / (loss) $135.5 $105.2 $119.0 $(109.9) $230.7Income / (loss) from continuing operations $31.2 $(1.5) $14.8 $(251.4) $57.2Income / (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $38.9 $(93.1) $(500.0) $12.4 $(131.8)Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $(239.0) $(74.6)Capital expenditures $103.6 $121.5 $148.5 $137.2 $118.1 Balance Sheet Data (end of period): Total assets $1,883.1 $2,049.2 $2,419.2 $3,324.7 $3,559.1Long term debt (c) $1,372.3 $1,700.2 $1,828.7 $1,420.5 $2,120.9Redeemable preferred stock of subsidiary $ $ $ $18.4 $18.4Total common shareholders equity / (deficit) $(471.7) $(584.3) $(587.6) $(80.6) $148.2(a)The goodwill impairment of $135.8 million in 2014 related to DPLER has been reclassified to discontinued operations.(b)Fixed asset impairments of $175.8 million and $835.2 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively, have been reclassified to discontinued operations.(c)Excluded from this line are the current maturities of long term debt.DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions except per share amounts or as indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014Total electric sales (millions of kWh) 15,194 14,401 15,008 26,394 28,634Statements of Operations Data Revenues $738.7 $720.0 $808.0 $857.0 $1,668.3Fixed asset impairment (a) $ $ $ $ $Operating income $135.1 $122.1 $169.0 $222.2 $188.8Income from continuing operations $86.7 $57.4 $97.6 $130.0 $114.1Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $ $(40.4) $(870.3) $(23.6) $Net income / (loss) attributable to common stock $86.7 $17.0 $(773.4) $105.5 $114.1Capital expenditures $93.1 $101.7 $128.3 $127.0 $114.2 Balance Sheet Data (end of period): Total assets $1,819.6 $1,695.9 $2,035.1 $3,359.6 $3,328.8Long term debt (b) $581.5 $642.0 $731.5 $313.6 $868.2Redeemable preferred stock $ $ $ $22.9 $22.9Total common shareholders equity $445.3 $330.7 $362.3 $1,212.7 $1,143.4 Number of shareholders preferred stock 180 186(a)Fixed asset impairment of $1,353.5 million in 2016 has been reclassified to discontinued operations.(b)Excluded from this line are the current maturities of long term debt.26Table of ContentsItem 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with DPLs audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto and DP&Ls audited Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the results suggested by these forward looking statements. See Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Form 10 K and Item 1A Risk Factors. For a list of certain abbreviations or acronyms in this discussion, see Glossary of Terms at the beginning of this Form 10 K.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYDPLDPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $38.4 million, or 591%, from a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.9Lower interest expense due to debt payments made in 2017 and 2018 12.0Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (25.7)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (11.7)Other (6.0)Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $38.4DPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined by $18.9 million, or 152%, from pre tax income of $12.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.4)Increase due to lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 6.7Fixed asset impairment recorded in 2016 on Conesville facility 23.9Other 0.9Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $(18.9)DP&LDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $15.9 million, or 18%, from pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $104.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.7Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (24.6)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (12.4)Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery (8.1)Increase in insurance and claims costs (4.0)Other (4.6)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $15.927Table of ContentsDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined $55.1 million, or 38%, from pre tax income of $143.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.5)Increase in General taxes driven by higher property taxes (8.3)Lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 7.9Other (4.2)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $(55.1)RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DPLDPLs results of operations include the results of its subsidiaries, including the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. A separate specific discussion of the results of operations for DP&L is presented elsewhere in this report.Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $656.9 $641.5 $738.5Wholesale 52.0 31.9 27.1RTO revenue 43.2 47.4 46.5RTO capacity revenues 14.4 12.1 11.0Other revenues 9.4 11.0 11.1Total revenues 775.9 743.9 834.2Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 17.5 9.0 17.4Purchased power: Purchased power 244.9 231.4 258.1RTO charges 57.8 57.5 59.7RTO capacity charges 2.3 2.1 1.3Net purchased power cost 305.0 291.0 319.1 Total cost of revenues 322.5 300.0 336.5 Gross margin 453.4 443.9 497.7 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 156.8 186.1 213.5Depreciation and amortization 73.1 76.1 73.6General taxes 73.5 77.1 68.4Fixed asset impairment 2.8 23.9Gain on asset disposal (0.6) (0.7)Loss on disposal of business (Note 16) 11.7 Total operating expenses 317.9 338.7 378.7 Operating income 135.5 105.2 119.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (98.0) (110.0) (107.4)Charge for early redemption of debt (6.5) (3.3) (3.1)Other income 0.9 1.6 3.9Other expense, net (103.6) (111.7) (106.6) Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax (a) $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.28Table of ContentsDPL RevenuesRetail customers, especially residential and commercial customers, consume more electricity on warmer and colder days. Therefore, our retail sales volume is affected by the number of heating and cooling degree days occurring during a year. Cooling degree days typically have a more significant effect than heating degree days since some residential customers do not use electricity to heat their homes.Degree days Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Heating degree days (a) 5,547 4,805 5,034Cooling degree days (a) 1,341 890 1,213(a)Heating and cooling degree days are a measure of the relative heating or cooling required for a home or business. The heating degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is below 65 degrees Fahrenheit. For example, if the average temperature on March 20th was 40 degrees Fahrenheit, the heating degrees for that day would be the 25 degree difference between 65 degrees and 40 degrees. Similarly, cooling degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is above 65 degrees Fahrenheit.DPLs electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DPL Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 1,289 816 907Total electric sales 15,728 14,679 15,406 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DPL retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within DPL wholesale electric sales are DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC and the generation output of Conesville.During the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $32.0 million to $775.9 million from $743.9 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown above by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.9 Total retail change 15.4 Wholesale Increase due to increased volumes sold by Conesville of 93% and higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices20.1 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (1.9) Other Other revenues (1.6) Net change in Revenues $32.0 29Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $90.3 million to $743.9 million from $834.2 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (69.2) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown above by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.4) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.0) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased volumes sold by Conesville of 30% and decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 4.8 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 2.0 Other Other revenues (0.1) Net change in Revenues $(90.3)DPL Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $22.5 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs Increase due to higher internal generation at Conesville of 93% $8.5 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (12.2)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 25.7Total purchased power change 13.5 RTO charges 0.3RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 14.0 Net change in Cost of Revenues $22.530Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $36.5 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015 being collected in 2016, and decreased internal generation at Conesville of 30% $(8.4) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (20.0)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (6.7)Total purchased power change (26.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (2.2)RTO capacity charges 0.8Net change in purchased power (28.1) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(36.5)DPL Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $29.3 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Decrease in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan (2.2)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 7.3Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net (2.5)Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(29.3)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $27.4 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 3.3Increase in legal and other consulting costs 2.9Other, net (3.0)Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(27.4)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DPL Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $3.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a credit recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018 related to the reduction of ARO assets for Conesville. The ARO assets were previously fully impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.5 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.31Table of ContentsDPL General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.6 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018 and the unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property taxes.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.7 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, an unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.4 million increase in other general taxes.DPL Fixed asset ImpairmentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $2.8 million for Conesville, as it was determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $23.9 million. In the fourth quarter of 2016, DPL performed a long lived asset impairment analysis for Conesville and determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.DPL Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a loss on disposal of business of $11.7 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility. DPL Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Interest expense decreased $12.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DPL and DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Interest expense increased $2.6 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DPL Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $6.5 million primarily due to the make whole premium payment of $5.1 million related to the $101.0 million partial redemption, in April 2018, of the DPL 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.3 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.1 million primarily due to the February 2016 make whole premium of $2.4 million associated with the early retirement of $73.0 million of the 6.5% Senior Notes due in 2016.DPL Income Tax ExpenseIncome tax benefit of $5.0 million in 2017 changed to expense of $0.7 million in 2018. This change was primarily driven by the increase in Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax in the current year, partially offset by the decrease in federal tax rate from 35% to 21% and tax benefits associated with the amortization of the impact of the lower income tax rate resulting from the TCJA on our deferred tax balances.Income tax benefit increased $2.6 million from $2.4 million in 2016 to $5.0 million in 2017. This increase was primarily due to a pre tax loss in 2017 compared to pre tax income in 2016 and the one time re measurement of deferred tax expense related to the recent enactment of the TCJA.DPL Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, DPL recorded income / (loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $38.9 million, $(93.1) million and $(500.0) million, respectively. This income / (loss) relates to the generation components of Stuart, Killen, Miami Fort, Zimmer, and the Peaker assets, which were disposed of 32Table of Contentseither by sale or retirement within the last year. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT DPL Inc.Beginning with the second quarter of 2018, DPL has presented the results of operations of Miami Fort Station, Zimmer Station, the Peaker Assets, Stuart Station and Killen Station as discontinued operations as a group of components for all periods presented. For more information, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements. AES Ohio Generation now only has operating activity coming from its undivided ownership interest in Conesville, which does not meet the threshold to be a separate reportable operating segment. Because of this, DPL now manages its business through only one reportable operating segment, the Utility segment. The primary segment performance measure is income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax as management has concluded that this measure best reflects the underlying business performance of DPL and is the most relevant measure considered in DPLs internal evaluation of the financial performance of its segments. The Utility segment is discussed further below:Utility SegmentThe Utility segment is comprised primarily of DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses, which distribute electricity to residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. DP&L distributes electricity to more than 525,000 retail customers who are located in a 6,000 square mile area of West Central Ohio. DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses are subject to rate regulation by federal and state regulators. Accordingly, DP&L applies the accounting standards for regulated operations to its electric transmission and distribution businesses and records regulatory assets when incurred costs are expected to be recovered in future customer rates, and regulatory liabilities when current cost recoveries in customer rates relate to expected future costs. The Utility segment includes revenues and costs associated with our investment in OVEC and the historical results of DP&Ls Beckjord Facility, which was closed in 2014 and transferred to a third party in the first quarter of 2018, and the Hutchings EGU, which was closed in 2013. These assets did not transfer to AES Ohio Generation as part of DP&Ls Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. Thus, they are grouped within the Utility segment for segment reporting purposes. In addition, regulatory deferrals and collections, which include fuel deferrals in historical periods, are included in the Utility segment.Included within the Other column are other businesses that do not meet the GAAP requirements for disclosure as reportable segments as well as certain corporate costs, which include interest expense on DPLs long term debt and adjustments related to purchase accounting from the Merger. DPLs undivided interest in Conesville is now included within the "Other" column as it no longer meets the requirement for disclosure as a reportable operating segment, since the results of operations of the other generation plants are now presented as discontinued operations. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales and profits are eliminated in consolidation. Certain shared and corporate costs are allocated among reporting segments.See Note 13 Business Segments of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding DPLs reportable segment.The following table presents DPLs Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax by business segment: Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Utility $104.4 $88.5 $143.0Other (72.5) (95.0) (130.6)Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Utility SegmentThe results of operations of the Utility segment for DPL are identical in all material respects and for all periods presented to those of DP&L, which are included in Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Statement of Operations Highlights DP&L) of this Form 10 K.33Table of ContentsRESULTS OF OPERATIONS DP&LStatement of Operations Highlights DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $657.9 $642.6 $739.8Wholesale 29.9 23.6 16.1RTO revenue 43.1 47.2 45.7RTO capacity revenues 7.8 6.6 6.4Total revenues 738.7 720.0 808.0Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 2.4 0.5 5.3Purchased power: Purchased power 243.5 230.6 258.3RTO charges 55.6 57.2 58.6RTO capacity charges 2.2 2.0 (0.2)Net purchased power cost 301.3 289.8 316.7Total cost of revenues 303.7 290.3 322.0 Gross margin 435.0 429.7 486.0 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 139.7 156.5 178.4Depreciation and amortization 74.5 75.3 71.0General taxes 73.1 76.3 68.0Loss / (gain) on asset disposal 0.2 (0.5) (0.4)Loss on disposal of business (Note 15) 12.4 Total operating expenses 299.9 307.6 317.0 Operating income 135.1 122.1 169.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (27.3) (30.5) (24.7)Charge for early redemption of debt (0.6) (1.1) (0.5)Other income (2.8) (2.0) (0.2)Total other expense, net (30.7) (33.6) (25.4) Income from continuing operations before income tax (a) $104.4 $88.5 $143.6(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.DP&Ls electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DP&L Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 755 538 509Total electric sales 15,194 14,401 15,008 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DP&L retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within wholesale electric sales is DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC.34Table of ContentsDP&L RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $18.7 million to $738.7 million from $720.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.7 Other miscellaneous 0.1Total retail change 15.3 Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices 6.3 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (2.9) Net change in Revenues $18.7During the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $88.0 million to $720.0 million from $808.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.6Net change in retail rate (69.3) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.5) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.2) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 7.5 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 1.7 Net change in Revenues $(88.0)35Table of ContentsDP&L Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $13.4 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs $1.9 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (11.7)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 24.6Total purchased power change 12.9 RTO charges (1.6)RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 11.5 Net change in Cost of Revenues $13.4During the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $31.7 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015, being collected in 2016 $(4.8) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (19.8)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (7.9)Total purchased power change (27.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (1.4)RTO capacity charges 2.2Net change in purchased power (26.9) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(31.7)DP&L Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $16.8 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 8.1Increase in insurance and claims costs 4.0Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net 3.0Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(16.8)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.36Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $21.9 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in legal and other consulting costs 4.5Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 4.0Other, net 0.2Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(21.9)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with this program resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DP&L Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.8 million compared to the prior year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.3 million compared to the prior year. This change was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.DP&L General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.3 million. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, a 2017 unfavorable true up of $1.1 million for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.0 million increase in other general taxes.DP&L Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a Loss on disposal of business of $12.4 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility.DP&L Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, interest expense decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, interest expense increased $5.8 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DP&L Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $0.6 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$1.1 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$0.5 million.DP&L Income Tax ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Income tax expense decreased $13.4 million from $31.1 million in 2017 to $17.7 million in 2018 primarily due to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% as a result of the passage of the TCJA and the amortization of excess deferred taxes resulting from the TCJA, partially offset by higher pre tax income in the current year versus the prior year.37Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Income tax expense decreased $14.9 million from $46.0 million in 2016 to $31.1 million in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in pre tax income in the current year, a decrease in the depreciation of AFUDC Equity, and a tax reserve that was recorded in the prior year. Partially offsetting the decrease was a prior year deferred tax adjustment that was not required in the current year.DP&L Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, DP&L recorded losses from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $40.4 million and $870.3 million, respectively. These losses relate to the discontinued DP&L Generation segment, which was transferred to AES Ohio Generation through Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. See Note 14 Generation Separation in Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.KEY TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIESFollowing the issuance of the DRO in September 2018 and the resulting changes to the decoupling rider effective January 1, 2019, we expect that our financial results will no longer be driven by retail demand and weather but will be impacted by customer growth within our service territory. See further discussion on these changes in Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. In addition, DPLs and DP&Ls financial results are likely to be driven by other factors including, but not limited to:regulatory outcomes;the passage of new legislation, implementation of regulations or other changes in regulations;timely recovery of transmission and distribution expenditures; andexiting generation assets currently owned by AES Ohio Generation.OperationalAs part of our announced plan to exit our generation businesses, on May 31, 2018, we retired the Stuart and Killen EGUs. In addition, we closed on a sale of our Peaker assets in March 2018. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In October 2018, AEP, the operator of the co owned Conesville EGU, announced that Unit 4 would close by May 2020. For additional information on these events and DPLs coal fired facilities, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.Macroeconomic and PoliticalUnited States Tax Law ReformIn December 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the TCJA. The legislation significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates and introducing new limitations on interest expense deductions beginning in 2018. These changes will materially impact our effective tax rate in future periods. Specific provisions of the TCJA and their potential impacts on us are noted below. Our interpretation of the TCJA may change as the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service issue additional guidance. Such changes may be material.Lower Tax Rate The corporate tax rate decreased from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018. In addition to deferred tax remeasurement impacts, the lower tax rate resulted in the recognition, at December 31, 2017, of a regulatory liability at DP&L. The regulatory liability reflects deferred taxes that will flow back to ratepayers over time. For further details, see Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and "Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.SAB 118 As further explained in Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements, we have concluded our analysis of the implementation impacts of the TCJA and included adjustments to our previous estimates in accordance with the guidance of SAB 118.Limitation on Interest Expense Deductions The TCJA introduced a new limitation on the deductibility of net interest expense beginning January 1, 2018. The deduction is limited to interest income, plus 30 percent of tax basis EBITDA through 2021 (30 percent of EBIT beginning January 1, 2022). This determination is made at the 38Table of Contentsconsolidated group level. The limitation does not apply to interest expense attributable to regulated utility property. The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service have released proposed regulations to clarify how the exception will apply to regulated utility holding companies. These proposed regulations are prospective; we have not adopted them for 2018.Cost Recovery The TCJA amended depreciation rules to provide full expensing (100% bonus depreciation) for assets that commence construction and are placed in service before January 1, 2023. This provision is phased down by 20 percent ratably through 2027. The immediate full expensing provision is elective, but it does not apply to regulated utility property. This change is not expected to impact our effective tax rate; however, if elected, it could impact taxable income and cash taxes in future periods.State Taxes The reactions of the individual states to federal tax reform is still evolving. These state and municipalities will assess whether and how the federal changes will be incorporated into their tax legislation.On January 10, 2018 the PUCO initiated a proceeding to consider the impacts of the TCJA to determine the appropriate course of action to pass benefits resulting from the legislation on to ratepayers. The PUCO also directed Ohio utilities to record deferred liabilities for the estimated reduction in federal income tax resulting from the TCJA beginning January 1, 2018. Under the terms of the ESP, DPL will not make tax sharing payments and if our rates are reduced as a result of the TCJA, DPLs cash flows could be adversely affected. See Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.LIBOR Phase OutIn July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced the phase out of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee within the Federal Reserve is responsible for the transition from LIBOR to a new benchmark replacement rate. While we maintain financial instruments that use LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark, the full impact of the phase out is uncertain until a new replacement benchmark is determined andimplementation plans are more fully developed.Regulatory EnvironmentFor a comprehensive discussion of the market structure and regulation of DPL and DP&L, see Part I, Item 1 Business Competition and Regulation.In December 2018, DP&L filed a Distribution Modernization Plan (DMP) with the PUCO proposing to invest $576.0 million in capital projects over the next 10 years. There are eight principal components of DP&Ls DMP: 1) Smart Meters, 2) Self Healing Grid, 3) Customer Engagement, 4) Enhancing Sustainability and Embracing Innovation. 5) Telecommunications, 6) Physical and Cyber Security, 7) Governance and Analytics, and 8) Grid Modernization R&D.On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.For more information regarding DP&Ls ESP, see Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYCash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for DPL and DP&L was $111.7 million and $66.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018. At that date, neither DPL nor DP&L had short term investments. DPL and DP&L had aggregate principal amounts of debt outstanding of $1,488.4 million and $593.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018.Approximately $103.6 million of DPLs debt and $4.6 million of DP&Ls debt matures within the next twelve months, which we expect to repay using a combination of cash on hand, net cash provided by operating activities and or net proceeds from the issuance of new debt. From time to time, we may elect to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise when management believes such repurchases are favorable to make. The amounts involved in any such repurchases may be material.We depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage our liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations could affect the cash flows and results of operations of our business.DP&L must first seek approval from the PUCO to issue new stocks, bonds, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness. Annually, DP&L must receive authority to issue and assume liability on short term debt, not to exceed 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.401 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L received an order from the PUCO granting authority through December 31, 2019 to, among other things, issue up to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of short term indebtedness. DP&L must also receive authority to issue and assume liability on long term debt, in excess of 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.40 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L last received approval in 2016 to, among other things, issue up to $455.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 30 years at an interest rate not to exceed 6.60%. DP&L also has restrictions on the amount of new debt that may be issued due to contractual obligations of AES and by financial covenant restrictions under existing debt obligations. DP&L does not believe such restrictions will be a limiting factor in our ability to issue debt in the ordinary course of prudent business operations. In 2019, DP&L filed for approval to, among other things, issue up to $425.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 40 years at an interest rate not to exceed 5.75%.CASH FLOWSDPLs financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements include the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.Cash Flow Analysis DPL:DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities 129.9 (39.3) (141.5)Net cash used in financing activities (250.5) (149.6) (167.1)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 1.5 27.5 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 86.8 (29.7) (25.7)Balance at beginning of year 24.9 54.6 80.3Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year $111.7 $24.9 $54.6DPL Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $164.7 $390.6Depreciation and amortization 55.7 110.5 137.9 (54.8) (27.4)Impairment expenses 2.8 175.8 859.0 (173.0) (683.2)Charge for early redemption of debt 6.5 3.3 3.1 3.2 0.2Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 2.0 (21.8) (359.8) 23.8 338.0Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 137.1 173.2 155.0 (36.1) 18.2Net change in operating assets and liabilities 68.8 (41.5) 112.1 110.3 (153.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1 $74.2 $(135.4)39Table of ContentsFiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accrued taxes payable is primarily due to a prior year income tax benefit and current year income tax expense $41.1Increase from accounts receivable is primarily due to 2018 collections of PJM transmission enhancement settlement and remaining amounts due from partners in jointly owned stations 27.6Increase from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and lower coal purchases in 2018 20.0Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, is primarily due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from pension, retiree and other benefits relates to higher contributions and lower accruals of net periodic benefit costs in 2018 (8.1)Increase from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2018 7.1Other 8.1Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $110.3Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(51.4)Decrease from accrued taxes payable primarily due to incurring current income tax expense in 2016 compared to a current tax benefit in 2017 (48.8)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Decrease from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2016 (24.3)Other (1.3)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(153.6)DPL Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities primarily relates to proceeds from the sale of business of $234.9 million, primarily due to the sale of the Peaker assets, and proceeds of $10.6 million, related to the June transmission swap with Duke and AEP, partially offset by capital expenditures of $103.6 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $121.5 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.3 million, and $70.1 million of proceeds from the sale of the Miami Fort and Zimmer stations.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $148.5 million, partially offset by $6.3 million of insurance proceeds.DPL Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $240.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net repayments on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $159.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net borrowings on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $577.8 million of long term debt, and the redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of new long term debt of $442.8 million.40Table of ContentsCash Flow Analysis DP&L:DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2Net cash used in investing activities (96.9) (89.5) (121.6)Net cash used in financing activities (38.3) (68.9) (135.2)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 27.0 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 60.6 4.0 (3.8)Balance at beginning of year 5.6 1.6 5.4Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of year $66.2 $5.6 $1.6DP&L Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $86.7 $17.0 $(772.7) $69.7 $789.7Depreciation and amortization 77.6 88.3 123.2 (10.7) (34.9)Impairment expenses 66.3 1,353.5 (66.3) (1,287.2)Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 29.5 23.9 (481.3) 5.6 505.2Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 193.8 195.5 222.7 (1.7) (27.2)Net change in operating assets and liabilities 2.0 (60.1) 14.5 62.1 (74.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2 $60.4 $(101.8)Fiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and less generation related payments, mostly related to coal purchases $52.5Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from inventory primarily due to no longer having coal purchases in 2018 (10.6)Other 5.7Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $62.1Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(63.3)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Increase from accounts receivable primarily due to timing of collections 22.9Other (6.4)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(74.6)DP&L Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $93.1 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million, partially offset by proceeds of $10.6 million related to the June transmission asset swap with Duke and AEP. During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $101.7 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $128.3 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $6.1 million.41Table of ContentsDP&L Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $64.5 million of long term debt, returns of capital paid to parent of $43.8 million, and $10.0 million net repayments on revolving credit facilities during the year, partially offset by a $80.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to retirement of $104.5 million of long term debt and dividends and return of capital paid to parent of $39.0 million, partially offset by a $70.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $445.3 million of long term debt, $70.0 million in dividends paid on common stock to parent, related party repayments, net of related party borrowings, of $30.0 million, and redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of $442.8 million of new long term debt.LiquidityWe expect our existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs. Our business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and carrying costs, potential margin requirements related to energy hedges, taxes and dividend payments. For 2019 and subsequent years, we expect to satisfy these requirements with a combination of cash from operations and funds from debt financing as our internal liquidity needs and market conditions warrant. We also expect that the borrowing capacity under bank credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements during those periods. In addition, DP&Ls 2017 ESP provides for a DMR, which will be used for debt obligations at DPL and DP&L. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters for more information.At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L have access to the following revolving credit facilities:$ in millions Type Maturity Commitment Amounts available as of December 31, 2018DPL Revolving July 2020 $205.0 $191.0 DP&L Revolving July 2020 175.0 173.9 $380.0 $364.9DP&Ls revolving credit facility has a commitment of $175.0 million, with a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DP&L the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $100.0 million and extending the term of the facility from May 2018 to July 2020. At December 31, 2018, DP&L had nothing drawn under this facility and had one letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million outstanding, with the remaining $173.9 million available to DP&L. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.DPL has a revolving credit facility of $205.0 million, with a $200.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DPL the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $95.0 million. This facility is secured by a pledge of common stock that DPL owns in DP&L, limited to the amount permitted to be pledged under certain Indentures dated October 3, 2011 and October 6, 2014 between DPL and Wells Fargo Bank, NA and U.S. Bank National Association, respectively, as Trustee and a limited recourse guarantee by AES Ohio Generation secured by assets of AES Ohio Generation. DPL further secured the credit facility through a leasehold mortgage on additional assets of AES Ohio Generation. The facility expires in July 2020; however, DPLs credit facility has a springing maturity feature providing that if, before July 1, 2019, DPL has not refinanced its senior unsecured bonds due October 2019 to have a maturity date that is at least six months later than July 31, 2020, then the maturity of this facility shall be July 1, 2019. At December 31, 2018, there were five letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $14.0 million outstanding under this facility, and nothing borrowed on the facility, with the remaining $191.0 million available to DPL. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.42Table of ContentsCapital RequirementsConstruction Additions Actual Projected$ in millions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021DPL $140 $108 $84 $143 $223 $262 DP&L $88 $83 $82 $140 $221 $260Capital projects are subject to continuing review and are revised in light of changes in financial and economic conditions, load forecasts, legislative and regulatory developments and changing environmental laws, rules and regulations, among other factors.DPL is projecting to spend an estimated $628.0 million in capital projects for the period 2019 through 2021, which includes expected spending under DP&Ls Distribution Modernization Plan ("DMP") filed with the PUCO in December 2018. DP&Ls 2017 ESP also provided for a DMR to pay debt obligations at DPL and DP&L and position DP&L to modernize and or maintain its transmission and distribution infrastructure. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information. On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.DP&L is subject to the mandatory reliability standards of NERC and Reliability First Corporation (RFC), one of the eight NERC regions, of which DP&L is a member. NERC has recently changed the definition of the Bulk Electric System to include 100 kV and above facilities, thus expanding the facilities to which the reliability standards apply. DP&Ls 138 kV facilities were previously not subject to these reliability standards. Accordingly, DP&L anticipates spending approximately $221.0 million within the next five years to reinforce its 138 kV system to comply with these new NERC standards. Our ability to complete capital projects and the reliability of future service will be affected by our financial condition, the availability of internal funds and the reasonable cost of external funds. We expect to finance our construction additions with a combination of cash on hand, short term financing, long term debt and cash flows from operations.Debt CovenantsFor information regarding our long term debt covenants, see Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Debt RatingsThe following table outlines the debt ratings and outlook for DPL and DP&L, along with the effective or affirmed date of each rating. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB(a) / BBB (b) A (c) Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 (b) A3 (c) Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB (b) BBB+ (c) Stable March 2018(a)Rating relates to DPLs senior secured debt.(b)Rating relates to DPLs senior unsecured debt.(c)Rating relates to DP&Ls senior secured debt.Credit RatingsThe following table outlines the credit ratings (issuer/corporate rating) and outlook for each company, along with the effective or affirmed dates of each rating and outlook for DPL and DP&L. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB BBB Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 Baa2 Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB BBB Stable March 201843Table of ContentsIf the rating agencies were to reduce our debt or credit ratings, our borrowing costs may increase, our potential pool of investors and funding resources may be reduced, and we may be required to post additional collateral under certain contracts. These events may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, any such reduction in our debt or credit ratings may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding debt securities. Non investment grade companies may experience higher costs to issue new securities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsDPL GuaranteesIn the normal course of business, DPL enters into various agreements with its wholly owned subsidiary, AES Ohio Generation, providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. These agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness otherwise attributed to these subsidiaries on a stand alone basis, thereby facilitating the extension of sufficient credit to accomplish this subsidiarys intended commercial purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL did not incur any losses related to the guarantees of these obligations and we believe it is unlikely that DPL would be required to perform or incur any losses in the future associated with any of the above guarantees.At December 31, 2018, DPL had $23.6 million of guarantees on behalf of AES Ohio Generation to third parties for future financial or performance assurance under such agreements. The guarantee arrangements entered into by DPL with these third parties cover present and future obligations of AES Ohio Generation to such beneficiaries and are terminable at any time by DPL upon written notice to the beneficiaries. We had no outstanding balance of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees at December 31, 2018. The carrying amount of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees and recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $0.9 million at December 31, 2017.DP&L owns a 4.9% equity ownership interest in OVEC which is recorded using the cost method of accounting under GAAP. At December 31, 2018, DP&L could be responsible for the repayment of 4.9%, or $68.1 million, of a $1,389.6 million debt obligation comprised of both fixed and variable rate securities with maturities between 2019 and 2040. This would only happen if this electric generation company defaulted on its debt payments. At December 31, 2018, we have no knowledge of such a default.Commercial Commitments and Contractual ObligationsWe enter into various contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that may affect the liquidity of our operations. At December 31, 2018, these include: Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDPL: Long term debt $1,488.4 $103.6 $929.4 $423.0 $32.4Interest payments 274.4 86.6 145.3 15.9 26.6Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 40.2 11.4 14.8 14.0 Total contractual obligations $2,277.0 $368.9 $1,214.1 $506.5 $187.5 Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDP&L: Long term debt $593.8 $4.6 $149.4 $423.0 $16.8Interest payments 94.5 23.7 41.0 13.4 16.4Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 39.8 11.3 14.7 13.8 Total contractual obligations $1,202.1 $206.9 $329.7 $503.8 $161.7Long term debt:DPLs Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan and Capital Trust II securities, along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the Wright 44Table of ContentsPatterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments.DP&Ls Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts.See Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Interest payments:Interest payments are associated with the long term debt described above. The interest payments relating to variable rate debt are projected using the interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018.Pension and postretirement payments:At December 31, 2018, DPL, through its principal subsidiary DP&L, had estimated future benefit payments as outlined in Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. These estimated future benefit payments are projected through 2028. This amount also includes postretirement benefit costs.Electricity purchase commitments:DPL enters into long term contracts for the purchase of electricity. In general, these contracts are subject to variable quantities or prices and are terminable only in limited circumstances.Purchase orders and other contractual obligations:At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L had various other contractual obligations including non cancelable contracts to purchase goods and services with various terms and expiration dates. Due to uncertainty regarding the timing and payment of future obligations to the Service Company, and DPLs and DP&Ls ability to terminate such obligations upon 90 days notice, we have excluded such amounts in the contractual obligations table above. See Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for additional information on charges between related parties and amounts due to or from related parties.Reserve for uncertain tax positions:Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits of $3.5 million at December 31, 2018, we are unable to make a reliable estimate of the periods of cash settlement with the respective tax authorities and have not included such amounts in the contractual obligations table above.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESDPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, our management is required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on our historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting estimates are those which require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Different estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Historically, however, recorded estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Significant items subject to such judgments include: the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; unbilled revenues; the valuation of allowances for deferred income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; reserves recorded for income tax exposures; litigation; contingencies; the valuation of AROs; and assets and liabilities related to employee benefits.45Table of ContentsRevenue Recognition (including Unbilled Revenue)Revenue is primarily earned from retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recorded net of any taxes assessed on and collected from customers, which are remitted to the governmental authorities.Income TaxesWe are subject to federal and state income taxes. Our income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcome of tax examinations when determining the adequacy of our income tax provisions by considering the technical merits of the filing position, case law, and results of previous tax examinations. Accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of our income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established which we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While we believe that the amount of the tax reserves is reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may be materially different than the reserve amounts.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of the existing assets and liabilities, and their respective income tax bases. We establish a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.Regulatory Assets and LiabilitiesApplication of the provisions of GAAP relating to regulatory accounting requires us to reflect the effect of rate regulation in DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements. For regulated businesses subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation, regulatory practices that assign costs to accounting periods may differ from accounting methods generally applied by non regulated companies. When it is probable that regulators will permit the recovery of current costs through future rates charged to customers, we defer these costs as Regulatory assets that otherwise would be expensed by non regulated companies. Likewise, we recognize Regulatory liabilities when it is probable that regulators will require customer refunds through future rates and when revenue is collected from customers for expenses that are not yet incurred. Regulatory assets are amortized into expense and Regulatory liabilities are amortized into income over the recovery period authorized by the regulator.We evaluate our Regulatory assets to determine whether or not they are probable of recovery through future rates and make various assumptions in our analyses. The expectations of future recovery are generally based on orders issued by regulatory commissions or historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of a regulatory asset is determined to be less than probable, it will be expensed in the period the assessment is made. We currently believe the recovery of our Regulatory assets is probable. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.AROsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for AROs, legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets are required to be recognized at their fair value at the time those obligations are incurred. Upon initial recognition of a legal liability, costs are capitalized as part of the related long lived asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the asset. These GAAP provisions also require that components of previously recorded depreciation related to the cost of removal of assets upon future retirement, whether legal AROs or not, must be removed from a companys accumulated depreciation reserve and be reclassified as a regulatory liability. We make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to AROs. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. See Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.46Table of ContentsImpairmentsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for impairments, long lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When required, impairment losses on assets to be held and used are recognized based on the fair value of the asset group. Impairment losses on assets held for sale are recognized based on the fair value of the disposal group. We determine the fair value of these assets based upon estimates of future cash flows, market value of similar assets, if available, or independent appraisals, if required. In analyzing the fair value and recoverability using future cash flows, we make projections based on a number of assumptions and estimates of growth rates, future economic conditions, assignment of discount rates and estimates of terminal values. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the long lived asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. The measurement of impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset.Pension and Postretirement BenefitsWe account for and disclose pension and postemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for pension and other postemployment plans. These GAAP provisions require the use of assumptions, such as the discount rate for liabilities and long term rate of return on assets, in determining the obligations, annual cost, and funding requirements of the plans. See Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.Contingent and Other ObligationsDuring the conduct of our business, we are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that potentially subject us to environmental, litigation, insurance and other risks. We periodically evaluate our exposure to such risks and record estimated liabilities for those matters where a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with GAAP. In recording such estimated liabilities, we may make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to contingent and other obligations. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions and may be subject to change. We believe such estimates and assumptions are reasonable.Recently Issued Accounting PronouncementsA discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements and such discussion is incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.LEGAL AND OTHER MATTERSDiscussions of legal and other matters are provided in Item 1 Business "Environmental Matters", Item 1 Business "Competition and Regulation" and Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Such discussions are incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskWe are subject to certain market risks including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices for electricity and fluctuations in interest rates. We use various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to limit our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Our U.S. Risk Management Committee (U.S. RMC), comprised of members of senior management, is responsible for establishing risk management policies and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures related to our operations. The U.S. RMC meets on a regular basis with the objective of identifying, assessing and quantifying material risk issues and developing strategies to manage these risks.The disclosures presented in this section are based upon a number of assumptions; actual effects may differ. The safe harbor provided in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 47Table of Contents1934 shall apply to the disclosures contained in this section. For further information regarding market risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance; and we may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in interest rates.Purchased power costsDP&L conducts competitive bid auctions to purchase power for SSO service, as all of DP&Ls SSO is sourced through the competitive bid auction.As a result of DPLs exit from the majority of its coal fired generation, changes in the prices of fuel and purchased power are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Interest rate riskBecause of our normal investing and borrowing activities, our financial results are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, which we manage through our regular financing activities. We maintain both cash on deposit and investments in cash equivalents that may be affected by adverse interest rate fluctuations. DPL and DP&L have both fixed rate and variable rate long term debt. On November 21, 2016, the DP&L $200.0 million variable rate First Mortgage Bonds were hedged with floating for fixed interest rate swaps, reducing interest rate risk exposure for the term of the bonds. On January 1, 2018 the interest rate on these First Mortgage Bonds was adjusted and as a result the bonds are no longer fully hedged and are treated as variable. Market indexes can be affected by market demand, supply, market interest rates and other economic conditions. See Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. At December 31, 2018, a 1% change in interest rates would result in an approximately $14.9 million change in DPLs interest expense and an approximately $5.9 million change in DP&Ls interest expense.Principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dateThe principal amount of DPLs long term debt was $1,488.4 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan, Capital Trust II securities along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. All of DPLs existing debt was adjusted to fair value at the Merger date according to FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 805, Business Combinations. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $1,519.6 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DPLs debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes:DPL Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $99.1 $0.2 $780.2 $0.2 $0.2 $32.4 912.3 943.5 Average interest rate 6.7% 4.2% 7.2% 4.2% 4.2% 6.1% Total $1,488.4 $1,519.648Table of ContentsThe principal amount of DP&Ls long term debt was $593.8 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $593.8 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DP&Ls debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes. The DP&L debt was not revalued using push down accounting as a result of the Merger.DP&L Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $0.1 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $16.8 17.7 17.7 Average interest rate 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% Total $593.8 $593.8Equity price riskAt December 31, 2018, approximately 33% of the defined benefit pension plan assets were comprised of investments in equity securities and 67% related to investments in fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and alternative investments. The equity securities are carried at their market value of approximately $105.2 million at December 31, 2018. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $10.5 million reduction in fair value at December 31, 2018 and approximately a $1.6 million increase to the 2019 pension expense.Credit riskCredit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. We limit our credit risk by assessing the creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continue to evaluate their creditworthiness after transactions have been originated. We use the three leading corporate credit rating agencies and other current market based qualitative and quantitative data to assess the financial strength of counterparties on an ongoing basis. We may require various forms of credit assurance from counterparties to mitigate credit risk.
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with DPLs audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto and DP&Ls audited Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the results suggested by these forward looking statements. See Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of this Form 10 K and Item 1A Risk Factors. For a list of certain abbreviations or acronyms in this discussion, see Glossary of Terms at the beginning of this Form 10 K.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYDPLDPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $38.4 million, or 591%, from a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.9Lower interest expense due to debt payments made in 2017 and 2018 12.0Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (25.7)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (11.7)Other (6.0)Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $38.4DPLs income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined by $18.9 million, or 152%, from pre tax income of $12.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.4)Increase due to lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 6.7Fixed asset impairment recorded in 2016 on Conesville facility 23.9Other 0.9Net change in income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $(18.9)DP&LDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved by $15.9 million, or 18%, from pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to pre tax income of $104.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Favorable impact of DMR rider following 2017 ESP $28.0Higher rates from DRO 9.9Higher retail revenue volumes driven by favorable weather 31.7Decrease due to higher purchased power volumes, driven by higher retail demand (24.6)Loss on transfer of Beckjord facility (12.4)Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery (8.1)Increase in insurance and claims costs (4.0)Other (4.6)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $15.927Table of ContentsDP&Ls income from continuing operations before income tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 declined $55.1 million, or 38%, from pre tax income of $143.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to a pre tax income of $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to factors including, but not limited to:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, partially offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 $(22.0)Lower retail revenue volumes driven by unfavorable weather (28.5)Increase in General taxes driven by higher property taxes (8.3)Lower purchased power volumes, driven by lower retail demand 7.9Other (4.2)Net change in income from continuing operations before income tax $(55.1)RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DPLDPLs results of operations include the results of its subsidiaries, including the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. A separate specific discussion of the results of operations for DP&L is presented elsewhere in this report.Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $656.9 $641.5 $738.5Wholesale 52.0 31.9 27.1RTO revenue 43.2 47.4 46.5RTO capacity revenues 14.4 12.1 11.0Other revenues 9.4 11.0 11.1Total revenues 775.9 743.9 834.2Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 17.5 9.0 17.4Purchased power: Purchased power 244.9 231.4 258.1RTO charges 57.8 57.5 59.7RTO capacity charges 2.3 2.1 1.3Net purchased power cost 305.0 291.0 319.1 Total cost of revenues 322.5 300.0 336.5 Gross margin 453.4 443.9 497.7 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 156.8 186.1 213.5Depreciation and amortization 73.1 76.1 73.6General taxes 73.5 77.1 68.4Fixed asset impairment 2.8 23.9Gain on asset disposal (0.6) (0.7)Loss on disposal of business (Note 16) 11.7 Total operating expenses 317.9 338.7 378.7 Operating income 135.5 105.2 119.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (98.0) (110.0) (107.4)Charge for early redemption of debt (6.5) (3.3) (3.1)Other income 0.9 1.6 3.9Other expense, net (103.6) (111.7) (106.6) Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax (a) $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.28Table of ContentsDPL RevenuesRetail customers, especially residential and commercial customers, consume more electricity on warmer and colder days. Therefore, our retail sales volume is affected by the number of heating and cooling degree days occurring during a year. Cooling degree days typically have a more significant effect than heating degree days since some residential customers do not use electricity to heat their homes.Degree days Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Heating degree days (a) 5,547 4,805 5,034Cooling degree days (a) 1,341 890 1,213(a)Heating and cooling degree days are a measure of the relative heating or cooling required for a home or business. The heating degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is below 65 degrees Fahrenheit. For example, if the average temperature on March 20th was 40 degrees Fahrenheit, the heating degrees for that day would be the 25 degree difference between 65 degrees and 40 degrees. Similarly, cooling degrees in a day are calculated as the degrees that the average actual daily temperature is above 65 degrees Fahrenheit.DPLs electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DPL Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 1,289 816 907Total electric sales 15,728 14,679 15,406 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DPL retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within DPL wholesale electric sales are DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC and the generation output of Conesville.During the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $32.0 million to $775.9 million from $743.9 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown above by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.9 Total retail change 15.4 Wholesale Increase due to increased volumes sold by Conesville of 93% and higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices20.1 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (1.9) Other Other revenues (1.6) Net change in Revenues $32.0 29Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $90.3 million to $743.9 million from $834.2 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (69.2) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown above by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.4) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.0) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased volumes sold by Conesville of 30% and decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 4.8 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 2.0 Other Other revenues (0.1) Net change in Revenues $(90.3)DPL Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $22.5 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs Increase due to higher internal generation at Conesville of 93% $8.5 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (12.2)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 25.7Total purchased power change 13.5 RTO charges 0.3RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 14.0 Net change in Cost of Revenues $22.530Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $36.5 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015 being collected in 2016, and decreased internal generation at Conesville of 30% $(8.4) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (20.0)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (6.7)Total purchased power change (26.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (2.2)RTO capacity charges 0.8Net change in purchased power (28.1) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(36.5)DPL Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $29.3 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Decrease in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan (2.2)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 7.3Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net (2.5)Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(29.3)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $27.4 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 3.3Increase in legal and other consulting costs 2.9Other, net (3.0)Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(27.4)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DPL Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $3.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a credit recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018 related to the reduction of ARO assets for Conesville. The ARO assets were previously fully impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.5 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.31Table of ContentsDPL General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.6 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018 and the unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property taxes.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.7 million compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, an unfavorable true up of $1.1 million in 2017 for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.4 million increase in other general taxes.DPL Fixed asset ImpairmentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $2.8 million for Conesville, as it was determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded an impairment of fixed assets of $23.9 million. In the fourth quarter of 2016, DPL performed a long lived asset impairment analysis for Conesville and determined that its carrying amount was not recoverable.DPL Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a loss on disposal of business of $11.7 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility. DPL Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Interest expense decreased $12.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DPL and DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Interest expense increased $2.6 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DPL Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $6.5 million primarily due to the make whole premium payment of $5.1 million related to the $101.0 million partial redemption, in April 2018, of the DPL 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.3 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DPL recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $3.1 million primarily due to the February 2016 make whole premium of $2.4 million associated with the early retirement of $73.0 million of the 6.5% Senior Notes due in 2016.DPL Income Tax ExpenseIncome tax benefit of $5.0 million in 2017 changed to expense of $0.7 million in 2018. This change was primarily driven by the increase in Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax in the current year, partially offset by the decrease in federal tax rate from 35% to 21% and tax benefits associated with the amortization of the impact of the lower income tax rate resulting from the TCJA on our deferred tax balances.Income tax benefit increased $2.6 million from $2.4 million in 2016 to $5.0 million in 2017. This increase was primarily due to a pre tax loss in 2017 compared to pre tax income in 2016 and the one time re measurement of deferred tax expense related to the recent enactment of the TCJA.DPL Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, DPL recorded income / (loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $38.9 million, $(93.1) million and $(500.0) million, respectively. This income / (loss) relates to the generation components of Stuart, Killen, Miami Fort, Zimmer, and the Peaker assets, which were disposed of 32Table of Contentseither by sale or retirement within the last year. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT DPL Inc.Beginning with the second quarter of 2018, DPL has presented the results of operations of Miami Fort Station, Zimmer Station, the Peaker Assets, Stuart Station and Killen Station as discontinued operations as a group of components for all periods presented. For more information, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements. AES Ohio Generation now only has operating activity coming from its undivided ownership interest in Conesville, which does not meet the threshold to be a separate reportable operating segment. Because of this, DPL now manages its business through only one reportable operating segment, the Utility segment. The primary segment performance measure is income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax as management has concluded that this measure best reflects the underlying business performance of DPL and is the most relevant measure considered in DPLs internal evaluation of the financial performance of its segments. The Utility segment is discussed further below:Utility SegmentThe Utility segment is comprised primarily of DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses, which distribute electricity to residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. DP&L distributes electricity to more than 525,000 retail customers who are located in a 6,000 square mile area of West Central Ohio. DP&Ls electric transmission and distribution businesses are subject to rate regulation by federal and state regulators. Accordingly, DP&L applies the accounting standards for regulated operations to its electric transmission and distribution businesses and records regulatory assets when incurred costs are expected to be recovered in future customer rates, and regulatory liabilities when current cost recoveries in customer rates relate to expected future costs. The Utility segment includes revenues and costs associated with our investment in OVEC and the historical results of DP&Ls Beckjord Facility, which was closed in 2014 and transferred to a third party in the first quarter of 2018, and the Hutchings EGU, which was closed in 2013. These assets did not transfer to AES Ohio Generation as part of DP&Ls Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. Thus, they are grouped within the Utility segment for segment reporting purposes. In addition, regulatory deferrals and collections, which include fuel deferrals in historical periods, are included in the Utility segment.Included within the Other column are other businesses that do not meet the GAAP requirements for disclosure as reportable segments as well as certain corporate costs, which include interest expense on DPLs long term debt and adjustments related to purchase accounting from the Merger. DPLs undivided interest in Conesville is now included within the "Other" column as it no longer meets the requirement for disclosure as a reportable operating segment, since the results of operations of the other generation plants are now presented as discontinued operations. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales and profits are eliminated in consolidation. Certain shared and corporate costs are allocated among reporting segments.See Note 13 Business Segments of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding DPLs reportable segment.The following table presents DPLs Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax by business segment: Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Utility $104.4 $88.5 $143.0Other (72.5) (95.0) (130.6)Income / (loss) from continuing operations before income tax $31.9 $(6.5) $12.4Statement of Operations Highlights DPL Utility SegmentThe results of operations of the Utility segment for DPL are identical in all material respects and for all periods presented to those of DP&L, which are included in Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Statement of Operations Highlights DP&L) of this Form 10 K.33Table of ContentsRESULTS OF OPERATIONS DP&LStatement of Operations Highlights DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $657.9 $642.6 $739.8Wholesale 29.9 23.6 16.1RTO revenue 43.1 47.2 45.7RTO capacity revenues 7.8 6.6 6.4Total revenues 738.7 720.0 808.0Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 2.4 0.5 5.3Purchased power: Purchased power 243.5 230.6 258.3RTO charges 55.6 57.2 58.6RTO capacity charges 2.2 2.0 (0.2)Net purchased power cost 301.3 289.8 316.7Total cost of revenues 303.7 290.3 322.0 Gross margin 435.0 429.7 486.0 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 139.7 156.5 178.4Depreciation and amortization 74.5 75.3 71.0General taxes 73.1 76.3 68.0Loss / (gain) on asset disposal 0.2 (0.5) (0.4)Loss on disposal of business (Note 15) 12.4 Total operating expenses 299.9 307.6 317.0 Operating income 135.1 122.1 169.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (27.3) (30.5) (24.7)Charge for early redemption of debt (0.6) (1.1) (0.5)Other income (2.8) (2.0) (0.2)Total other expense, net (30.7) (33.6) (25.4) Income from continuing operations before income tax (a) $104.4 $88.5 $143.6(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.DP&Ls electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DP&L Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 755 538 509Total electric sales 15,194 14,401 15,008 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DP&L retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within wholesale electric sales is DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC.34Table of ContentsDP&L RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $18.7 million to $738.7 million from $720.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.7 Other miscellaneous 0.1Total retail change 15.3 Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices 6.3 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (2.9) Net change in Revenues $18.7During the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $88.0 million to $720.0 million from $808.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.6Net change in retail rate (69.3) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.5) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.2) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 7.5 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 1.7 Net change in Revenues $(88.0)35Table of ContentsDP&L Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $13.4 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs $1.9 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (11.7)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 24.6Total purchased power change 12.9 RTO charges (1.6)RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 11.5 Net change in Cost of Revenues $13.4During the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $31.7 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015, being collected in 2016 $(4.8) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (19.8)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (7.9)Total purchased power change (27.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (1.4)RTO capacity charges 2.2Net change in purchased power (26.9) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(31.7)DP&L Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $16.8 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 8.1Increase in insurance and claims costs 4.0Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net 3.0Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(16.8)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.36Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $21.9 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in legal and other consulting costs 4.5Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 4.0Other, net 0.2Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(21.9)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with this program resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DP&L Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.8 million compared to the prior year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.3 million compared to the prior year. This change was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.DP&L General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.3 million. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, a 2017 unfavorable true up of $1.1 million for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.0 million increase in other general taxes.DP&L Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a Loss on disposal of business of $12.4 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility.DP&L Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, interest expense decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, interest expense increased $5.8 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DP&L Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $0.6 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$1.1 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$0.5 million.DP&L Income Tax ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Income tax expense decreased $13.4 million from $31.1 million in 2017 to $17.7 million in 2018 primarily due to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% as a result of the passage of the TCJA and the amortization of excess deferred taxes resulting from the TCJA, partially offset by higher pre tax income in the current year versus the prior year.37Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Income tax expense decreased $14.9 million from $46.0 million in 2016 to $31.1 million in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in pre tax income in the current year, a decrease in the depreciation of AFUDC Equity, and a tax reserve that was recorded in the prior year. Partially offsetting the decrease was a prior year deferred tax adjustment that was not required in the current year.DP&L Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, DP&L recorded losses from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $40.4 million and $870.3 million, respectively. These losses relate to the discontinued DP&L Generation segment, which was transferred to AES Ohio Generation through Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. See Note 14 Generation Separation in Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.KEY TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIESFollowing the issuance of the DRO in September 2018 and the resulting changes to the decoupling rider effective January 1, 2019, we expect that our financial results will no longer be driven by retail demand and weather but will be impacted by customer growth within our service territory. See further discussion on these changes in Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. In addition, DPLs and DP&Ls financial results are likely to be driven by other factors including, but not limited to:regulatory outcomes;the passage of new legislation, implementation of regulations or other changes in regulations;timely recovery of transmission and distribution expenditures; andexiting generation assets currently owned by AES Ohio Generation.OperationalAs part of our announced plan to exit our generation businesses, on May 31, 2018, we retired the Stuart and Killen EGUs. In addition, we closed on a sale of our Peaker assets in March 2018. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In October 2018, AEP, the operator of the co owned Conesville EGU, announced that Unit 4 would close by May 2020. For additional information on these events and DPLs coal fired facilities, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.Macroeconomic and PoliticalUnited States Tax Law ReformIn December 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the TCJA. The legislation significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates and introducing new limitations on interest expense deductions beginning in 2018. These changes will materially impact our effective tax rate in future periods. Specific provisions of the TCJA and their potential impacts on us are noted below. Our interpretation of the TCJA may change as the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service issue additional guidance. Such changes may be material.Lower Tax Rate The corporate tax rate decreased from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018. In addition to deferred tax remeasurement impacts, the lower tax rate resulted in the recognition, at December 31, 2017, of a regulatory liability at DP&L. The regulatory liability reflects deferred taxes that will flow back to ratepayers over time. For further details, see Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and "Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.SAB 118 As further explained in Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements, we have concluded our analysis of the implementation impacts of the TCJA and included adjustments to our previous estimates in accordance with the guidance of SAB 118.Limitation on Interest Expense Deductions The TCJA introduced a new limitation on the deductibility of net interest expense beginning January 1, 2018. The deduction is limited to interest income, plus 30 percent of tax basis EBITDA through 2021 (30 percent of EBIT beginning January 1, 2022). This determination is made at the 38Table of Contentsconsolidated group level. The limitation does not apply to interest expense attributable to regulated utility property. The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service have released proposed regulations to clarify how the exception will apply to regulated utility holding companies. These proposed regulations are prospective; we have not adopted them for 2018.Cost Recovery The TCJA amended depreciation rules to provide full expensing (100% bonus depreciation) for assets that commence construction and are placed in service before January 1, 2023. This provision is phased down by 20 percent ratably through 2027. The immediate full expensing provision is elective, but it does not apply to regulated utility property. This change is not expected to impact our effective tax rate; however, if elected, it could impact taxable income and cash taxes in future periods.State Taxes The reactions of the individual states to federal tax reform is still evolving. These state and municipalities will assess whether and how the federal changes will be incorporated into their tax legislation.On January 10, 2018 the PUCO initiated a proceeding to consider the impacts of the TCJA to determine the appropriate course of action to pass benefits resulting from the legislation on to ratepayers. The PUCO also directed Ohio utilities to record deferred liabilities for the estimated reduction in federal income tax resulting from the TCJA beginning January 1, 2018. Under the terms of the ESP, DPL will not make tax sharing payments and if our rates are reduced as a result of the TCJA, DPLs cash flows could be adversely affected. See Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.LIBOR Phase OutIn July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced the phase out of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee within the Federal Reserve is responsible for the transition from LIBOR to a new benchmark replacement rate. While we maintain financial instruments that use LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark, the full impact of the phase out is uncertain until a new replacement benchmark is determined andimplementation plans are more fully developed.Regulatory EnvironmentFor a comprehensive discussion of the market structure and regulation of DPL and DP&L, see Part I, Item 1 Business Competition and Regulation.In December 2018, DP&L filed a Distribution Modernization Plan (DMP) with the PUCO proposing to invest $576.0 million in capital projects over the next 10 years. There are eight principal components of DP&Ls DMP: 1) Smart Meters, 2) Self Healing Grid, 3) Customer Engagement, 4) Enhancing Sustainability and Embracing Innovation. 5) Telecommunications, 6) Physical and Cyber Security, 7) Governance and Analytics, and 8) Grid Modernization R&D.On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.For more information regarding DP&Ls ESP, see Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYCash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for DPL and DP&L was $111.7 million and $66.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018. At that date, neither DPL nor DP&L had short term investments. DPL and DP&L had aggregate principal amounts of debt outstanding of $1,488.4 million and $593.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018.Approximately $103.6 million of DPLs debt and $4.6 million of DP&Ls debt matures within the next twelve months, which we expect to repay using a combination of cash on hand, net cash provided by operating activities and or net proceeds from the issuance of new debt. From time to time, we may elect to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise when management believes such repurchases are favorable to make. The amounts involved in any such repurchases may be material.We depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage our liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations could affect the cash flows and results of operations of our business.DP&L must first seek approval from the PUCO to issue new stocks, bonds, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness. Annually, DP&L must receive authority to issue and assume liability on short term debt, not to exceed 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.401 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L received an order from the PUCO granting authority through December 31, 2019 to, among other things, issue up to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of short term indebtedness. DP&L must also receive authority to issue and assume liability on long term debt, in excess of 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.40 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L last received approval in 2016 to, among other things, issue up to $455.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 30 years at an interest rate not to exceed 6.60%. DP&L also has restrictions on the amount of new debt that may be issued due to contractual obligations of AES and by financial covenant restrictions under existing debt obligations. DP&L does not believe such restrictions will be a limiting factor in our ability to issue debt in the ordinary course of prudent business operations. In 2019, DP&L filed for approval to, among other things, issue up to $425.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 40 years at an interest rate not to exceed 5.75%.CASH FLOWSDPLs financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements include the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.Cash Flow Analysis DPL:DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities 129.9 (39.3) (141.5)Net cash used in financing activities (250.5) (149.6) (167.1)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 1.5 27.5 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 86.8 (29.7) (25.7)Balance at beginning of year 24.9 54.6 80.3Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year $111.7 $24.9 $54.6DPL Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $164.7 $390.6Depreciation and amortization 55.7 110.5 137.9 (54.8) (27.4)Impairment expenses 2.8 175.8 859.0 (173.0) (683.2)Charge for early redemption of debt 6.5 3.3 3.1 3.2 0.2Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 2.0 (21.8) (359.8) 23.8 338.0Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 137.1 173.2 155.0 (36.1) 18.2Net change in operating assets and liabilities 68.8 (41.5) 112.1 110.3 (153.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1 $74.2 $(135.4)39Table of ContentsFiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accrued taxes payable is primarily due to a prior year income tax benefit and current year income tax expense $41.1Increase from accounts receivable is primarily due to 2018 collections of PJM transmission enhancement settlement and remaining amounts due from partners in jointly owned stations 27.6Increase from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and lower coal purchases in 2018 20.0Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, is primarily due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from pension, retiree and other benefits relates to higher contributions and lower accruals of net periodic benefit costs in 2018 (8.1)Increase from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2018 7.1Other 8.1Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $110.3Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(51.4)Decrease from accrued taxes payable primarily due to incurring current income tax expense in 2016 compared to a current tax benefit in 2017 (48.8)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Decrease from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2016 (24.3)Other (1.3)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(153.6)DPL Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities primarily relates to proceeds from the sale of business of $234.9 million, primarily due to the sale of the Peaker assets, and proceeds of $10.6 million, related to the June transmission swap with Duke and AEP, partially offset by capital expenditures of $103.6 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $121.5 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.3 million, and $70.1 million of proceeds from the sale of the Miami Fort and Zimmer stations.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $148.5 million, partially offset by $6.3 million of insurance proceeds.DPL Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $240.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net repayments on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $159.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net borrowings on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $577.8 million of long term debt, and the redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of new long term debt of $442.8 million.40Table of ContentsCash Flow Analysis DP&L:DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2Net cash used in investing activities (96.9) (89.5) (121.6)Net cash used in financing activities (38.3) (68.9) (135.2)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 27.0 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 60.6 4.0 (3.8)Balance at beginning of year 5.6 1.6 5.4Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of year $66.2 $5.6 $1.6DP&L Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $86.7 $17.0 $(772.7) $69.7 $789.7Depreciation and amortization 77.6 88.3 123.2 (10.7) (34.9)Impairment expenses 66.3 1,353.5 (66.3) (1,287.2)Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 29.5 23.9 (481.3) 5.6 505.2Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 193.8 195.5 222.7 (1.7) (27.2)Net change in operating assets and liabilities 2.0 (60.1) 14.5 62.1 (74.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2 $60.4 $(101.8)Fiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and less generation related payments, mostly related to coal purchases $52.5Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from inventory primarily due to no longer having coal purchases in 2018 (10.6)Other 5.7Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $62.1Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(63.3)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Increase from accounts receivable primarily due to timing of collections 22.9Other (6.4)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(74.6)DP&L Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $93.1 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million, partially offset by proceeds of $10.6 million related to the June transmission asset swap with Duke and AEP. During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $101.7 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $128.3 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $6.1 million.41Table of ContentsDP&L Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $64.5 million of long term debt, returns of capital paid to parent of $43.8 million, and $10.0 million net repayments on revolving credit facilities during the year, partially offset by a $80.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to retirement of $104.5 million of long term debt and dividends and return of capital paid to parent of $39.0 million, partially offset by a $70.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $445.3 million of long term debt, $70.0 million in dividends paid on common stock to parent, related party repayments, net of related party borrowings, of $30.0 million, and redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of $442.8 million of new long term debt.LiquidityWe expect our existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs. Our business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and carrying costs, potential margin requirements related to energy hedges, taxes and dividend payments. For 2019 and subsequent years, we expect to satisfy these requirements with a combination of cash from operations and funds from debt financing as our internal liquidity needs and market conditions warrant. We also expect that the borrowing capacity under bank credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements during those periods. In addition, DP&Ls 2017 ESP provides for a DMR, which will be used for debt obligations at DPL and DP&L. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters for more information.At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L have access to the following revolving credit facilities:$ in millions Type Maturity Commitment Amounts available as of December 31, 2018DPL Revolving July 2020 $205.0 $191.0 DP&L Revolving July 2020 175.0 173.9 $380.0 $364.9DP&Ls revolving credit facility has a commitment of $175.0 million, with a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DP&L the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $100.0 million and extending the term of the facility from May 2018 to July 2020. At December 31, 2018, DP&L had nothing drawn under this facility and had one letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million outstanding, with the remaining $173.9 million available to DP&L. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.DPL has a revolving credit facility of $205.0 million, with a $200.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DPL the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $95.0 million. This facility is secured by a pledge of common stock that DPL owns in DP&L, limited to the amount permitted to be pledged under certain Indentures dated October 3, 2011 and October 6, 2014 between DPL and Wells Fargo Bank, NA and U.S. Bank National Association, respectively, as Trustee and a limited recourse guarantee by AES Ohio Generation secured by assets of AES Ohio Generation. DPL further secured the credit facility through a leasehold mortgage on additional assets of AES Ohio Generation. The facility expires in July 2020; however, DPLs credit facility has a springing maturity feature providing that if, before July 1, 2019, DPL has not refinanced its senior unsecured bonds due October 2019 to have a maturity date that is at least six months later than July 31, 2020, then the maturity of this facility shall be July 1, 2019. At December 31, 2018, there were five letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $14.0 million outstanding under this facility, and nothing borrowed on the facility, with the remaining $191.0 million available to DPL. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.42Table of ContentsCapital RequirementsConstruction Additions Actual Projected$ in millions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021DPL $140 $108 $84 $143 $223 $262 DP&L $88 $83 $82 $140 $221 $260Capital projects are subject to continuing review and are revised in light of changes in financial and economic conditions, load forecasts, legislative and regulatory developments and changing environmental laws, rules and regulations, among other factors.DPL is projecting to spend an estimated $628.0 million in capital projects for the period 2019 through 2021, which includes expected spending under DP&Ls Distribution Modernization Plan ("DMP") filed with the PUCO in December 2018. DP&Ls 2017 ESP also provided for a DMR to pay debt obligations at DPL and DP&L and position DP&L to modernize and or maintain its transmission and distribution infrastructure. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information. On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.DP&L is subject to the mandatory reliability standards of NERC and Reliability First Corporation (RFC), one of the eight NERC regions, of which DP&L is a member. NERC has recently changed the definition of the Bulk Electric System to include 100 kV and above facilities, thus expanding the facilities to which the reliability standards apply. DP&Ls 138 kV facilities were previously not subject to these reliability standards. Accordingly, DP&L anticipates spending approximately $221.0 million within the next five years to reinforce its 138 kV system to comply with these new NERC standards. Our ability to complete capital projects and the reliability of future service will be affected by our financial condition, the availability of internal funds and the reasonable cost of external funds. We expect to finance our construction additions with a combination of cash on hand, short term financing, long term debt and cash flows from operations.Debt CovenantsFor information regarding our long term debt covenants, see Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Debt RatingsThe following table outlines the debt ratings and outlook for DPL and DP&L, along with the effective or affirmed date of each rating. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB(a) / BBB (b) A (c) Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 (b) A3 (c) Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB (b) BBB+ (c) Stable March 2018(a)Rating relates to DPLs senior secured debt.(b)Rating relates to DPLs senior unsecured debt.(c)Rating relates to DP&Ls senior secured debt.Credit RatingsThe following table outlines the credit ratings (issuer/corporate rating) and outlook for each company, along with the effective or affirmed dates of each rating and outlook for DPL and DP&L. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB BBB Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 Baa2 Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB BBB Stable March 201843Table of ContentsIf the rating agencies were to reduce our debt or credit ratings, our borrowing costs may increase, our potential pool of investors and funding resources may be reduced, and we may be required to post additional collateral under certain contracts. These events may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, any such reduction in our debt or credit ratings may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding debt securities. Non investment grade companies may experience higher costs to issue new securities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsDPL GuaranteesIn the normal course of business, DPL enters into various agreements with its wholly owned subsidiary, AES Ohio Generation, providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. These agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness otherwise attributed to these subsidiaries on a stand alone basis, thereby facilitating the extension of sufficient credit to accomplish this subsidiarys intended commercial purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL did not incur any losses related to the guarantees of these obligations and we believe it is unlikely that DPL would be required to perform or incur any losses in the future associated with any of the above guarantees.At December 31, 2018, DPL had $23.6 million of guarantees on behalf of AES Ohio Generation to third parties for future financial or performance assurance under such agreements. The guarantee arrangements entered into by DPL with these third parties cover present and future obligations of AES Ohio Generation to such beneficiaries and are terminable at any time by DPL upon written notice to the beneficiaries. We had no outstanding balance of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees at December 31, 2018. The carrying amount of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees and recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $0.9 million at December 31, 2017.DP&L owns a 4.9% equity ownership interest in OVEC which is recorded using the cost method of accounting under GAAP. At December 31, 2018, DP&L could be responsible for the repayment of 4.9%, or $68.1 million, of a $1,389.6 million debt obligation comprised of both fixed and variable rate securities with maturities between 2019 and 2040. This would only happen if this electric generation company defaulted on its debt payments. At December 31, 2018, we have no knowledge of such a default.Commercial Commitments and Contractual ObligationsWe enter into various contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that may affect the liquidity of our operations. At December 31, 2018, these include: Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDPL: Long term debt $1,488.4 $103.6 $929.4 $423.0 $32.4Interest payments 274.4 86.6 145.3 15.9 26.6Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 40.2 11.4 14.8 14.0 Total contractual obligations $2,277.0 $368.9 $1,214.1 $506.5 $187.5 Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDP&L: Long term debt $593.8 $4.6 $149.4 $423.0 $16.8Interest payments 94.5 23.7 41.0 13.4 16.4Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 39.8 11.3 14.7 13.8 Total contractual obligations $1,202.1 $206.9 $329.7 $503.8 $161.7Long term debt:DPLs Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan and Capital Trust II securities, along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the Wright 44Table of ContentsPatterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments.DP&Ls Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts.See Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Interest payments:Interest payments are associated with the long term debt described above. The interest payments relating to variable rate debt are projected using the interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018.Pension and postretirement payments:At December 31, 2018, DPL, through its principal subsidiary DP&L, had estimated future benefit payments as outlined in Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. These estimated future benefit payments are projected through 2028. This amount also includes postretirement benefit costs.Electricity purchase commitments:DPL enters into long term contracts for the purchase of electricity. In general, these contracts are subject to variable quantities or prices and are terminable only in limited circumstances.Purchase orders and other contractual obligations:At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L had various other contractual obligations including non cancelable contracts to purchase goods and services with various terms and expiration dates. Due to uncertainty regarding the timing and payment of future obligations to the Service Company, and DPLs and DP&Ls ability to terminate such obligations upon 90 days notice, we have excluded such amounts in the contractual obligations table above. See Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for additional information on charges between related parties and amounts due to or from related parties.Reserve for uncertain tax positions:Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits of $3.5 million at December 31, 2018, we are unable to make a reliable estimate of the periods of cash settlement with the respective tax authorities and have not included such amounts in the contractual obligations table above.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESDPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, our management is required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on our historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting estimates are those which require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Different estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Historically, however, recorded estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Significant items subject to such judgments include: the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; unbilled revenues; the valuation of allowances for deferred income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; reserves recorded for income tax exposures; litigation; contingencies; the valuation of AROs; and assets and liabilities related to employee benefits.45Table of ContentsRevenue Recognition (including Unbilled Revenue)Revenue is primarily earned from retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recorded net of any taxes assessed on and collected from customers, which are remitted to the governmental authorities.Income TaxesWe are subject to federal and state income taxes. Our income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcome of tax examinations when determining the adequacy of our income tax provisions by considering the technical merits of the filing position, case law, and results of previous tax examinations. Accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of our income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established which we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While we believe that the amount of the tax reserves is reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may be materially different than the reserve amounts.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of the existing assets and liabilities, and their respective income tax bases. We establish a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.Regulatory Assets and LiabilitiesApplication of the provisions of GAAP relating to regulatory accounting requires us to reflect the effect of rate regulation in DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements. For regulated businesses subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation, regulatory practices that assign costs to accounting periods may differ from accounting methods generally applied by non regulated companies. When it is probable that regulators will permit the recovery of current costs through future rates charged to customers, we defer these costs as Regulatory assets that otherwise would be expensed by non regulated companies. Likewise, we recognize Regulatory liabilities when it is probable that regulators will require customer refunds through future rates and when revenue is collected from customers for expenses that are not yet incurred. Regulatory assets are amortized into expense and Regulatory liabilities are amortized into income over the recovery period authorized by the regulator.We evaluate our Regulatory assets to determine whether or not they are probable of recovery through future rates and make various assumptions in our analyses. The expectations of future recovery are generally based on orders issued by regulatory commissions or historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of a regulatory asset is determined to be less than probable, it will be expensed in the period the assessment is made. We currently believe the recovery of our Regulatory assets is probable. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.AROsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for AROs, legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets are required to be recognized at their fair value at the time those obligations are incurred. Upon initial recognition of a legal liability, costs are capitalized as part of the related long lived asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the asset. These GAAP provisions also require that components of previously recorded depreciation related to the cost of removal of assets upon future retirement, whether legal AROs or not, must be removed from a companys accumulated depreciation reserve and be reclassified as a regulatory liability. We make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to AROs. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. See Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.46Table of ContentsImpairmentsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for impairments, long lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When required, impairment losses on assets to be held and used are recognized based on the fair value of the asset group. Impairment losses on assets held for sale are recognized based on the fair value of the disposal group. We determine the fair value of these assets based upon estimates of future cash flows, market value of similar assets, if available, or independent appraisals, if required. In analyzing the fair value and recoverability using future cash flows, we make projections based on a number of assumptions and estimates of growth rates, future economic conditions, assignment of discount rates and estimates of terminal values. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the long lived asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. The measurement of impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset.Pension and Postretirement BenefitsWe account for and disclose pension and postemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for pension and other postemployment plans. These GAAP provisions require the use of assumptions, such as the discount rate for liabilities and long term rate of return on assets, in determining the obligations, annual cost, and funding requirements of the plans. See Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.Contingent and Other ObligationsDuring the conduct of our business, we are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that potentially subject us to environmental, litigation, insurance and other risks. We periodically evaluate our exposure to such risks and record estimated liabilities for those matters where a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with GAAP. In recording such estimated liabilities, we may make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to contingent and other obligations. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions and may be subject to change. We believe such estimates and assumptions are reasonable.Recently Issued Accounting PronouncementsA discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements and such discussion is incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.LEGAL AND OTHER MATTERSDiscussions of legal and other matters are provided in Item 1 Business "Environmental Matters", Item 1 Business "Competition and Regulation" and Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Such discussions are incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskWe are subject to certain market risks including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices for electricity and fluctuations in interest rates. We use various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to limit our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Our U.S. Risk Management Committee (U.S. RMC), comprised of members of senior management, is responsible for establishing risk management policies and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures related to our operations. The U.S. RMC meets on a regular basis with the objective of identifying, assessing and quantifying material risk issues and developing strategies to manage these risks.The disclosures presented in this section are based upon a number of assumptions; actual effects may differ. The safe harbor provided in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 47Table of Contents1934 shall apply to the disclosures contained in this section. For further information regarding market risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance; and we may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in interest rates.Purchased power costsDP&L conducts competitive bid auctions to purchase power for SSO service, as all of DP&Ls SSO is sourced through the competitive bid auction.As a result of DPLs exit from the majority of its coal fired generation, changes in the prices of fuel and purchased power are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Interest rate riskBecause of our normal investing and borrowing activities, our financial results are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, which we manage through our regular financing activities. We maintain both cash on deposit and investments in cash equivalents that may be affected by adverse interest rate fluctuations. DPL and DP&L have both fixed rate and variable rate long term debt. On November 21, 2016, the DP&L $200.0 million variable rate First Mortgage Bonds were hedged with floating for fixed interest rate swaps, reducing interest rate risk exposure for the term of the bonds. On January 1, 2018 the interest rate on these First Mortgage Bonds was adjusted and as a result the bonds are no longer fully hedged and are treated as variable. Market indexes can be affected by market demand, supply, market interest rates and other economic conditions. See Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. At December 31, 2018, a 1% change in interest rates would result in an approximately $14.9 million change in DPLs interest expense and an approximately $5.9 million change in DP&Ls interest expense.Principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dateThe principal amount of DPLs long term debt was $1,488.4 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan, Capital Trust II securities along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. All of DPLs existing debt was adjusted to fair value at the Merger date according to FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 805, Business Combinations. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $1,519.6 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DPLs debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes:DPL Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $99.1 $0.2 $780.2 $0.2 $0.2 $32.4 912.3 943.5 Average interest rate 6.7% 4.2% 7.2% 4.2% 4.2% 6.1% Total $1,488.4 $1,519.648Table of ContentsThe principal amount of DP&Ls long term debt was $593.8 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $593.8 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DP&Ls debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes. The DP&L debt was not revalued using push down accounting as a result of the Merger.DP&L Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $0.1 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $16.8 17.7 17.7 Average interest rate 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% Total $593.8 $593.8Equity price riskAt December 31, 2018, approximately 33% of the defined benefit pension plan assets were comprised of investments in equity securities and 67% related to investments in fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and alternative investments. The equity securities are carried at their market value of approximately $105.2 million at December 31, 2018. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $10.5 million reduction in fair value at December 31, 2018 and approximately a $1.6 million increase to the 2019 pension expense.Credit riskCredit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. We limit our credit risk by assessing the creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continue to evaluate their creditworthiness after transactions have been originated. We use the three leading corporate credit rating agencies and other current market based qualitative and quantitative data to assess the financial strength of counterparties on an ongoing basis. We may require various forms of credit assurance from counterparties to mitigate credit risk.
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Statement of Operations Highlights DP&L) of this Form 10 K.33Table of ContentsRESULTS OF OPERATIONS DP&LStatement of Operations Highlights DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Revenues: Retail $657.9 $642.6 $739.8Wholesale 29.9 23.6 16.1RTO revenue 43.1 47.2 45.7RTO capacity revenues 7.8 6.6 6.4Total revenues 738.7 720.0 808.0Cost of revenues: Net fuel cost 2.4 0.5 5.3Purchased power: Purchased power 243.5 230.6 258.3RTO charges 55.6 57.2 58.6RTO capacity charges 2.2 2.0 (0.2)Net purchased power cost 301.3 289.8 316.7Total cost of revenues 303.7 290.3 322.0 Gross margin 435.0 429.7 486.0 Operating expenses: Operation and maintenance 139.7 156.5 178.4Depreciation and amortization 74.5 75.3 71.0General taxes 73.1 76.3 68.0Loss / (gain) on asset disposal 0.2 (0.5) (0.4)Loss on disposal of business (Note 15) 12.4 Total operating expenses 299.9 307.6 317.0 Operating income 135.1 122.1 169.0 Other expense, net Interest expense (27.3) (30.5) (24.7)Charge for early redemption of debt (0.6) (1.1) (0.5)Other income (2.8) (2.0) (0.2)Total other expense, net (30.7) (33.6) (25.4) Income from continuing operations before income tax (a) $104.4 $88.5 $143.6(a)For purposes of discussing operating results, we present and discuss Income from continuing operations before income tax. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends and includes the same information that is used by management to make decisions regarding our financial performance.DP&Ls electric sales and billed customers were as follows:ELECTRIC SALES AND CUSTOMERS (a) DP&L Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Retail electric sales (b) 14,439 13,863 14,499Wholesale electric sales (c) 755 538 509Total electric sales 15,194 14,401 15,008 Billed electric customers (end of period) 525,166 521,609 519,128(a)Electric sales are presented in millions of KWh.(b)DP&L retail electric sales represent the total transmission and distribution retail sales for the periods presented. SSO sales were 3,977 KWh, 3,684 KWh and 3,856 KWh for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.(c)Included within wholesale electric sales is DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC.34Table of ContentsDP&L RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Revenues increased $18.7 million to $738.7 million from $720.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(46.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (12.5)Increase due to implementation of the DMR in November 2017 28.0Increase due to DRO 9.9Other 4.7Net change in retail rate (16.5) Volume Increase due to favorable weather, as shown by the 51% increase in cooling degree days and 15% increase in heating degree days 31.7 Other miscellaneous 0.1Total retail change 15.3 Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices and increased volumes for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices 6.3 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues (2.9) Net change in Revenues $18.7During the year ended December 31, 2017, Revenues decreased $88.0 million to $720.0 million from $808.0 million in the same period of the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Retail Rate Decrease in energy efficiency and USF revenue rate riders $(29.6)Decrease in competitive bid revenue rate rider (22.0)Decrease from reverting to ESP 1 rates in September 2016, offset by the implementation of the DMR in November 2017 (22.3)Other 4.6Net change in retail rate (69.3) Volume Decrease due to unfavorable weather, as shown by the 27% decrease in cooling degree days and 5% decrease in heating degree days (28.5) Other miscellaneous 0.6Total retail change (97.2) Wholesale Wholesale revenues Increase due to higher wholesale prices for DP&Ls 4.9% share of the generation output of OVEC, which is sold into PJM at market prices, and an increase in the load served of other parties through their competitive bid process, partially offset by decreased wholesale volumes for OVEC 7.5 RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues RTO revenues and RTO capacity revenues 1.7 Net change in Revenues $(88.0)35Table of ContentsDP&L Cost of RevenuesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Cost of revenues increased $13.4 million compared to the prior year. This increase was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Fuel Net fuel costs $1.9 Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (11.7)Volume Increase due to higher competitive bid purchases due to increased DP&L retail demand 24.6Total purchased power change 12.9 RTO charges (1.6)RTO capacity charges 0.2Net change in purchased power 11.5 Net change in Cost of Revenues $13.4During the year ended December 31, 2017, Cost of revenues decreased $31.7 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Fuel Net fuel costs Decrease due to fuel costs deferred in 2015, being collected in 2016 $(4.8) Net purchased power Purchased power Rate Decrease due to lower rates in the competitive bid process (19.8)Volume Decrease due to fewer competitive bid purchases due to decreased DP&L retail demand (7.9)Total purchased power change (27.7)RTO charges Decrease due to lower transmission and congestion charges. RTO charges are incurred by DP&L as a member of PJM and primarily include transmission charges within DP&Ls network, which are incurred and charged to customers in the transmission rider (1.4)RTO capacity charges 2.2Net change in purchased power (26.9) Net change in Cost of Revenues $(31.7)DP&L Operation and MaintenanceDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $16.8 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2018 vs. 2017Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) $(34.2)Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) (8.5)Decrease due to higher severance expense in the prior year mostly due to AES restructuring activities (2.6)Increase in amortization of previously deferred regulatory costs, including rate case costs, certain transmission costs, and various costs collected under the regulatory compliance rider (a) 10.8Increase in legal and other consulting costs, including write off of previously deferred rate case costs no longer deemed probable for recovery 8.1Increase in insurance and claims costs 4.0Increase in maintenance of overhead transmission and distribution lines 2.6Other, net 3.0Net change in Operations and Maintenance expense $(16.8)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with these program costs resulting in minimal impact to Net income.36Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $21.9 million compared to the prior year. This decrease was a result of:$ in millions 2017 vs. 2016Decrease in uncollectible expenses for the low income payment program, which is funded by the USF revenue rate rider (a) $(24.0)Decrease in alternative energy and energy efficiency programs (a) (6.6)Increase in legal and other consulting costs 4.5Increase in group insurance expense associated with participation in the AES self insurance plan 4.0Other, net 0.2Net change in Operation and Maintenance expense $(21.9)(a)There is corresponding revenue associated with this program resulting in minimal impact to Net income.DP&L Depreciation and AmortizationDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.8 million compared to the prior year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.3 million compared to the prior year. This change was primarily due to additional investments in transmission and distribution fixed assets.DP&L General TaxesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, General taxes decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a favorable adjustment for 2017 Ohio property taxes to reflect actual payments made in 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, General taxes increased $8.3 million. The increase was primarily the result of an increase of $3.8 million in Ohio property tax expense driven by higher tax rates and higher property values, against lower expense in 2016 due to a $2.4 million favorable true up of the 2015 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2016, a 2017 unfavorable true up of $1.1 million for the 2016 Ohio property tax accrual to reflect actual payments made in 2017 and a $1.0 million increase in other general taxes.DP&L Loss on Disposal of BusinessDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a Loss on disposal of business of $12.4 million due to the loss on the transfer of business interests in the Beckjord facility.DP&L Interest ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, interest expense decreased $3.2 million compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of debt repayments at DP&L in 2017 and 2018.During the year ended December 31, 2017, interest expense increased $5.8 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher interest rates. On August 24, 2016, DP&L refinanced its 1.875% First Mortgage Bonds Due 2016, with a variable rate Term Loan B of $445.0 million maturing on August 24, 2022. The variable rate on the loan is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread of 3.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%.DP&L Charge for Early Redemption of DebtDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of $0.6 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$1.1 million primarily due to the early redemption of the 4.8% Tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2036.During the year ended December 31, 2016, DP&L recorded a charge for early redemption of debt of$0.5 million.DP&L Income Tax ExpenseDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, Income tax expense decreased $13.4 million from $31.1 million in 2017 to $17.7 million in 2018 primarily due to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% as a result of the passage of the TCJA and the amortization of excess deferred taxes resulting from the TCJA, partially offset by higher pre tax income in the current year versus the prior year.37Table of ContentsDuring the year ended December 31, 2017, Income tax expense decreased $14.9 million from $46.0 million in 2016 to $31.1 million in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in pre tax income in the current year, a decrease in the depreciation of AFUDC Equity, and a tax reserve that was recorded in the prior year. Partially offsetting the decrease was a prior year deferred tax adjustment that was not required in the current year.DP&L Discontinued OperationsDuring the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, DP&L recorded losses from discontinued operations (net of tax) of $40.4 million and $870.3 million, respectively. These losses relate to the discontinued DP&L Generation segment, which was transferred to AES Ohio Generation through Generation Separation on October 1, 2017. See Note 14 Generation Separation in Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.KEY TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIESFollowing the issuance of the DRO in September 2018 and the resulting changes to the decoupling rider effective January 1, 2019, we expect that our financial results will no longer be driven by retail demand and weather but will be impacted by customer growth within our service territory. See further discussion on these changes in Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. In addition, DPLs and DP&Ls financial results are likely to be driven by other factors including, but not limited to:regulatory outcomes;the passage of new legislation, implementation of regulations or other changes in regulations;timely recovery of transmission and distribution expenditures; andexiting generation assets currently owned by AES Ohio Generation.OperationalAs part of our announced plan to exit our generation businesses, on May 31, 2018, we retired the Stuart and Killen EGUs. In addition, we closed on a sale of our Peaker assets in March 2018. See Note 15 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In October 2018, AEP, the operator of the co owned Conesville EGU, announced that Unit 4 would close by May 2020. For additional information on these events and DPLs coal fired facilities, see Note 15 Discontinued Operations of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements.Macroeconomic and PoliticalUnited States Tax Law ReformIn December 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the TCJA. The legislation significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates and introducing new limitations on interest expense deductions beginning in 2018. These changes will materially impact our effective tax rate in future periods. Specific provisions of the TCJA and their potential impacts on us are noted below. Our interpretation of the TCJA may change as the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service issue additional guidance. Such changes may be material.Lower Tax Rate The corporate tax rate decreased from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018. In addition to deferred tax remeasurement impacts, the lower tax rate resulted in the recognition, at December 31, 2017, of a regulatory liability at DP&L. The regulatory liability reflects deferred taxes that will flow back to ratepayers over time. For further details, see Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and "Deferred income taxes payable through rates of Note 3 Regulatory Matters and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.SAB 118 As further explained in Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements, we have concluded our analysis of the implementation impacts of the TCJA and included adjustments to our previous estimates in accordance with the guidance of SAB 118.Limitation on Interest Expense Deductions The TCJA introduced a new limitation on the deductibility of net interest expense beginning January 1, 2018. The deduction is limited to interest income, plus 30 percent of tax basis EBITDA through 2021 (30 percent of EBIT beginning January 1, 2022). This determination is made at the 38Table of Contentsconsolidated group level. The limitation does not apply to interest expense attributable to regulated utility property. The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service have released proposed regulations to clarify how the exception will apply to regulated utility holding companies. These proposed regulations are prospective; we have not adopted them for 2018.Cost Recovery The TCJA amended depreciation rules to provide full expensing (100% bonus depreciation) for assets that commence construction and are placed in service before January 1, 2023. This provision is phased down by 20 percent ratably through 2027. The immediate full expensing provision is elective, but it does not apply to regulated utility property. This change is not expected to impact our effective tax rate; however, if elected, it could impact taxable income and cash taxes in future periods.State Taxes The reactions of the individual states to federal tax reform is still evolving. These state and municipalities will assess whether and how the federal changes will be incorporated into their tax legislation.On January 10, 2018 the PUCO initiated a proceeding to consider the impacts of the TCJA to determine the appropriate course of action to pass benefits resulting from the legislation on to ratepayers. The PUCO also directed Ohio utilities to record deferred liabilities for the estimated reduction in federal income tax resulting from the TCJA beginning January 1, 2018. Under the terms of the ESP, DPL will not make tax sharing payments and if our rates are reduced as a result of the TCJA, DPLs cash flows could be adversely affected. See Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 8 Income Taxes of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.LIBOR Phase OutIn July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced the phase out of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee within the Federal Reserve is responsible for the transition from LIBOR to a new benchmark replacement rate. While we maintain financial instruments that use LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark, the full impact of the phase out is uncertain until a new replacement benchmark is determined andimplementation plans are more fully developed.Regulatory EnvironmentFor a comprehensive discussion of the market structure and regulation of DPL and DP&L, see Part I, Item 1 Business Competition and Regulation.In December 2018, DP&L filed a Distribution Modernization Plan (DMP) with the PUCO proposing to invest $576.0 million in capital projects over the next 10 years. There are eight principal components of DP&Ls DMP: 1) Smart Meters, 2) Self Healing Grid, 3) Customer Engagement, 4) Enhancing Sustainability and Embracing Innovation. 5) Telecommunications, 6) Physical and Cyber Security, 7) Governance and Analytics, and 8) Grid Modernization R&D.On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.For more information regarding DP&Ls ESP, see Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYCash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for DPL and DP&L was $111.7 million and $66.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018. At that date, neither DPL nor DP&L had short term investments. DPL and DP&L had aggregate principal amounts of debt outstanding of $1,488.4 million and $593.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018.Approximately $103.6 million of DPLs debt and $4.6 million of DP&Ls debt matures within the next twelve months, which we expect to repay using a combination of cash on hand, net cash provided by operating activities and or net proceeds from the issuance of new debt. From time to time, we may elect to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise when management believes such repurchases are favorable to make. The amounts involved in any such repurchases may be material.We depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage our liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations could affect the cash flows and results of operations of our business.DP&L must first seek approval from the PUCO to issue new stocks, bonds, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness. Annually, DP&L must receive authority to issue and assume liability on short term debt, not to exceed 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.401 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L received an order from the PUCO granting authority through December 31, 2019 to, among other things, issue up to $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of short term indebtedness. DP&L must also receive authority to issue and assume liability on long term debt, in excess of 12 months, pursuant to Section 4905.40 of the Ohio Revised Code. DP&L last received approval in 2016 to, among other things, issue up to $455.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 30 years at an interest rate not to exceed 6.60%. DP&L also has restrictions on the amount of new debt that may be issued due to contractual obligations of AES and by financial covenant restrictions under existing debt obligations. DP&L does not believe such restrictions will be a limiting factor in our ability to issue debt in the ordinary course of prudent business operations. In 2019, DP&L filed for approval to, among other things, issue up to $425.0 million in aggregate principal amount of long term indebtedness for a term not to exceed 40 years at an interest rate not to exceed 5.75%.CASH FLOWSDPLs financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements include the consolidated results of its principal subsidiary DP&L. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.Cash Flow Analysis DPL:DPL Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities 129.9 (39.3) (141.5)Net cash used in financing activities (250.5) (149.6) (167.1)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 1.5 27.5 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 86.8 (29.7) (25.7)Balance at beginning of year 24.9 54.6 80.3Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year $111.7 $24.9 $54.6DPL Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $70.1 $(94.6) $(485.2) $164.7 $390.6Depreciation and amortization 55.7 110.5 137.9 (54.8) (27.4)Impairment expenses 2.8 175.8 859.0 (173.0) (683.2)Charge for early redemption of debt 6.5 3.3 3.1 3.2 0.2Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 2.0 (21.8) (359.8) 23.8 338.0Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 137.1 173.2 155.0 (36.1) 18.2Net change in operating assets and liabilities 68.8 (41.5) 112.1 110.3 (153.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $205.9 $131.7 $267.1 $74.2 $(135.4)39Table of ContentsFiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accrued taxes payable is primarily due to a prior year income tax benefit and current year income tax expense $41.1Increase from accounts receivable is primarily due to 2018 collections of PJM transmission enhancement settlement and remaining amounts due from partners in jointly owned stations 27.6Increase from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and lower coal purchases in 2018 20.0Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, is primarily due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from pension, retiree and other benefits relates to higher contributions and lower accruals of net periodic benefit costs in 2018 (8.1)Increase from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2018 7.1Other 8.1Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $110.3Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(51.4)Decrease from accrued taxes payable primarily due to incurring current income tax expense in 2016 compared to a current tax benefit in 2017 (48.8)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Decrease from inventory primarily due to lower coal purchases in 2016 (24.3)Other (1.3)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(153.6)DPL Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities primarily relates to proceeds from the sale of business of $234.9 million, primarily due to the sale of the Peaker assets, and proceeds of $10.6 million, related to the June transmission swap with Duke and AEP, partially offset by capital expenditures of $103.6 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $121.5 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.3 million, and $70.1 million of proceeds from the sale of the Miami Fort and Zimmer stations.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $148.5 million, partially offset by $6.3 million of insurance proceeds.DPL Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $240.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net repayments on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $159.5 million of long term debt, and $10.0 million of net borrowings on the revolving credit facilities during the year.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $577.8 million of long term debt, and the redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of new long term debt of $442.8 million.40Table of ContentsCash Flow Analysis DP&L:DP&L Years ended December 31,$ in millions 2018 2017 2016Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2Net cash used in investing activities (96.9) (89.5) (121.6)Net cash used in financing activities (38.3) (68.9) (135.2)Increase in cash and restricted cash of discontinued operations and held for sale businesses 27.0 15.8 Net increase / (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 60.6 4.0 (3.8)Balance at beginning of year 5.6 1.6 5.4Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of year $66.2 $5.6 $1.6DP&L Net cash from operating activities For the years ended December 31, $ change$ in millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016Net income / (loss) $86.7 $17.0 $(772.7) $69.7 $789.7Depreciation and amortization 77.6 88.3 123.2 (10.7) (34.9)Impairment expenses 66.3 1,353.5 (66.3) (1,287.2)Other adjustments to Net income / (loss) 29.5 23.9 (481.3) 5.6 505.2Net income / (loss), adjusted for non cash items 193.8 195.5 222.7 (1.7) (27.2)Net change in operating assets and liabilities 2.0 (60.1) 14.5 62.1 (74.6)Net cash provided by operating activities $195.8 $135.4 $237.2 $60.4 $(101.8)Fiscal year 2018 versus 2017:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeIncrease from accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments and less generation related payments, mostly related to coal purchases $52.5Increase from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to higher collections on regulatory assets and liabilities 14.5Decrease from inventory primarily due to no longer having coal purchases in 2018 (10.6)Other 5.7Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $62.1Fiscal year 2017 versus 2016:The net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was driven by the following:$ in millions $ changeDecrease from accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments and spending patterns $(63.3)Decrease from deferred regulatory costs, net, due to lower collections on regulatory assets and liabilities (27.8)Increase from accounts receivable primarily due to timing of collections 22.9Other (6.4)Net change in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities $(74.6)DP&L Net cash from investing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $93.1 million and payment on the disposal of Beckjord of $14.5 million, partially offset by proceeds of $10.6 million related to the June transmission asset swap with Duke and AEP. During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $101.7 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $12.5 million.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities primarily relates to capital expenditures of $128.3 million, partially offset by insurance proceeds of $6.1 million.41Table of ContentsDP&L Net cash from financing activitiesDuring the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $64.5 million of long term debt, returns of capital paid to parent of $43.8 million, and $10.0 million net repayments on revolving credit facilities during the year, partially offset by a $80.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to retirement of $104.5 million of long term debt and dividends and return of capital paid to parent of $39.0 million, partially offset by a $70.0 million capital contribution from DPL.During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in financing activities primarily relates to the retirement of $445.3 million of long term debt, $70.0 million in dividends paid on common stock to parent, related party repayments, net of related party borrowings, of $30.0 million, and redemption of $23.5 million of preferred stock, partially offset by the issuance of $442.8 million of new long term debt.LiquidityWe expect our existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs. Our business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and carrying costs, potential margin requirements related to energy hedges, taxes and dividend payments. For 2019 and subsequent years, we expect to satisfy these requirements with a combination of cash from operations and funds from debt financing as our internal liquidity needs and market conditions warrant. We also expect that the borrowing capacity under bank credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements during those periods. In addition, DP&Ls 2017 ESP provides for a DMR, which will be used for debt obligations at DPL and DP&L. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters for more information.At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L have access to the following revolving credit facilities:$ in millions Type Maturity Commitment Amounts available as of December 31, 2018DPL Revolving July 2020 $205.0 $191.0 DP&L Revolving July 2020 175.0 173.9 $380.0 $364.9DP&Ls revolving credit facility has a commitment of $175.0 million, with a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DP&L the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $100.0 million and extending the term of the facility from May 2018 to July 2020. At December 31, 2018, DP&L had nothing drawn under this facility and had one letter of credit in the amount of $1.1 million outstanding, with the remaining $173.9 million available to DP&L. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.DPL has a revolving credit facility of $205.0 million, with a $200.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a feature that provides DPL the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $95.0 million. This facility is secured by a pledge of common stock that DPL owns in DP&L, limited to the amount permitted to be pledged under certain Indentures dated October 3, 2011 and October 6, 2014 between DPL and Wells Fargo Bank, NA and U.S. Bank National Association, respectively, as Trustee and a limited recourse guarantee by AES Ohio Generation secured by assets of AES Ohio Generation. DPL further secured the credit facility through a leasehold mortgage on additional assets of AES Ohio Generation. The facility expires in July 2020; however, DPLs credit facility has a springing maturity feature providing that if, before July 1, 2019, DPL has not refinanced its senior unsecured bonds due October 2019 to have a maturity date that is at least six months later than July 31, 2020, then the maturity of this facility shall be July 1, 2019. At December 31, 2018, there were five letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $14.0 million outstanding under this facility, and nothing borrowed on the facility, with the remaining $191.0 million available to DPL. Fees associated with this facility were not material during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.42Table of ContentsCapital RequirementsConstruction Additions Actual Projected$ in millions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021DPL $140 $108 $84 $143 $223 $262 DP&L $88 $83 $82 $140 $221 $260Capital projects are subject to continuing review and are revised in light of changes in financial and economic conditions, load forecasts, legislative and regulatory developments and changing environmental laws, rules and regulations, among other factors.DPL is projecting to spend an estimated $628.0 million in capital projects for the period 2019 through 2021, which includes expected spending under DP&Ls Distribution Modernization Plan ("DMP") filed with the PUCO in December 2018. DP&Ls 2017 ESP also provided for a DMR to pay debt obligations at DPL and DP&L and position DP&L to modernize and or maintain its transmission and distribution infrastructure. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information. On January 22, 2019, DP&L filed a request with the PUCO for a two year extension of its DMR through October 2022, in the proposed amount of $199.0 million for each of the two additional years. The request was made pursuant to the PUCOs October 20, 2017 ESP order, which approved the DMR and had the option for DP&L to file for a two year extension. The extension request was set at a level expected to reduce debt obligations at both DP&L and DPL and to position DP&L to make capital expenditures to maintain and modernize its electric grid. To that end, DP&Ls DMP investments are contingent upon the PUCO approving the two year extension of its DMR.DP&L is subject to the mandatory reliability standards of NERC and Reliability First Corporation (RFC), one of the eight NERC regions, of which DP&L is a member. NERC has recently changed the definition of the Bulk Electric System to include 100 kV and above facilities, thus expanding the facilities to which the reliability standards apply. DP&Ls 138 kV facilities were previously not subject to these reliability standards. Accordingly, DP&L anticipates spending approximately $221.0 million within the next five years to reinforce its 138 kV system to comply with these new NERC standards. Our ability to complete capital projects and the reliability of future service will be affected by our financial condition, the availability of internal funds and the reasonable cost of external funds. We expect to finance our construction additions with a combination of cash on hand, short term financing, long term debt and cash flows from operations.Debt CovenantsFor information regarding our long term debt covenants, see Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Debt RatingsThe following table outlines the debt ratings and outlook for DPL and DP&L, along with the effective or affirmed date of each rating. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB(a) / BBB (b) A (c) Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 (b) A3 (c) Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB (b) BBB+ (c) Stable March 2018(a)Rating relates to DPLs senior secured debt.(b)Rating relates to DPLs senior unsecured debt.(c)Rating relates to DP&Ls senior secured debt.Credit RatingsThe following table outlines the credit ratings (issuer/corporate rating) and outlook for each company, along with the effective or affirmed dates of each rating and outlook for DPL and DP&L. DPL DP&L Outlook Effective or AffirmedFitch RatingsBBB BBB Stable October 2018Moodys Investors Service, Inc.Ba1 Baa2 Positive October 2018Standard & Poors Financial Services LLCBBB BBB Stable March 201843Table of ContentsIf the rating agencies were to reduce our debt or credit ratings, our borrowing costs may increase, our potential pool of investors and funding resources may be reduced, and we may be required to post additional collateral under certain contracts. These events may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, any such reduction in our debt or credit ratings may adversely affect the trading price of our outstanding debt securities. Non investment grade companies may experience higher costs to issue new securities.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsDPL GuaranteesIn the normal course of business, DPL enters into various agreements with its wholly owned subsidiary, AES Ohio Generation, providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. These agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness otherwise attributed to these subsidiaries on a stand alone basis, thereby facilitating the extension of sufficient credit to accomplish this subsidiarys intended commercial purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2018, DPL did not incur any losses related to the guarantees of these obligations and we believe it is unlikely that DPL would be required to perform or incur any losses in the future associated with any of the above guarantees.At December 31, 2018, DPL had $23.6 million of guarantees on behalf of AES Ohio Generation to third parties for future financial or performance assurance under such agreements. The guarantee arrangements entered into by DPL with these third parties cover present and future obligations of AES Ohio Generation to such beneficiaries and are terminable at any time by DPL upon written notice to the beneficiaries. We had no outstanding balance of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees at December 31, 2018. The carrying amount of obligations for commercial transactions covered by these guarantees and recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $0.9 million at December 31, 2017.DP&L owns a 4.9% equity ownership interest in OVEC which is recorded using the cost method of accounting under GAAP. At December 31, 2018, DP&L could be responsible for the repayment of 4.9%, or $68.1 million, of a $1,389.6 million debt obligation comprised of both fixed and variable rate securities with maturities between 2019 and 2040. This would only happen if this electric generation company defaulted on its debt payments. At December 31, 2018, we have no knowledge of such a default.Commercial Commitments and Contractual ObligationsWe enter into various contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that may affect the liquidity of our operations. At December 31, 2018, these include: Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDPL: Long term debt $1,488.4 $103.6 $929.4 $423.0 $32.4Interest payments 274.4 86.6 145.3 15.9 26.6Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 40.2 11.4 14.8 14.0 Total contractual obligations $2,277.0 $368.9 $1,214.1 $506.5 $187.5 Payments due in:$ in millions Total Less than1 year 2 3years 4 5years More than5 yearsDP&L: Long term debt $593.8 $4.6 $149.4 $423.0 $16.8Interest payments 94.5 23.7 41.0 13.4 16.4Pension and postretirement payments 264.6 27.8 54.7 53.6 128.5Electricity purchase commitments 209.4 139.5 69.9 Purchase orders and other contractual obligations 39.8 11.3 14.7 13.8 Total contractual obligations $1,202.1 $206.9 $329.7 $503.8 $161.7Long term debt:DPLs Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan and Capital Trust II securities, along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the Wright 44Table of ContentsPatterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments.DP&Ls Long term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. These long term debt amounts include current maturities but exclude unamortized debt discounts.See Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of the Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Interest payments:Interest payments are associated with the long term debt described above. The interest payments relating to variable rate debt are projected using the interest rates in effect at December 31, 2018.Pension and postretirement payments:At December 31, 2018, DPL, through its principal subsidiary DP&L, had estimated future benefit payments as outlined in Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. These estimated future benefit payments are projected through 2028. This amount also includes postretirement benefit costs.Electricity purchase commitments:DPL enters into long term contracts for the purchase of electricity. In general, these contracts are subject to variable quantities or prices and are terminable only in limited circumstances.Purchase orders and other contractual obligations:At December 31, 2018, DPL and DP&L had various other contractual obligations including non cancelable contracts to purchase goods and services with various terms and expiration dates. Due to uncertainty regarding the timing and payment of future obligations to the Service Company, and DPLs and DP&Ls ability to terminate such obligations upon 90 days notice, we have excluded such amounts in the contractual obligations table above. See Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 12 Related Party Transactions of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for additional information on charges between related parties and amounts due to or from related parties.Reserve for uncertain tax positions:Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits of $3.5 million at December 31, 2018, we are unable to make a reliable estimate of the periods of cash settlement with the respective tax authorities and have not included such amounts in the contractual obligations table above.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESDPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, our management is required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on our historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting estimates are those which require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.Different estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Historically, however, recorded estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Significant items subject to such judgments include: the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; unbilled revenues; the valuation of allowances for deferred income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; reserves recorded for income tax exposures; litigation; contingencies; the valuation of AROs; and assets and liabilities related to employee benefits.45Table of ContentsRevenue Recognition (including Unbilled Revenue)Revenue is primarily earned from retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recorded net of any taxes assessed on and collected from customers, which are remitted to the governmental authorities.Income TaxesWe are subject to federal and state income taxes. Our income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcome of tax examinations when determining the adequacy of our income tax provisions by considering the technical merits of the filing position, case law, and results of previous tax examinations. Accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of our income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established which we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While we believe that the amount of the tax reserves is reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may be materially different than the reserve amounts.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of the existing assets and liabilities, and their respective income tax bases. We establish a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.Regulatory Assets and LiabilitiesApplication of the provisions of GAAP relating to regulatory accounting requires us to reflect the effect of rate regulation in DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and DP&Ls Financial Statements. For regulated businesses subject to federal or state cost of service rate regulation, regulatory practices that assign costs to accounting periods may differ from accounting methods generally applied by non regulated companies. When it is probable that regulators will permit the recovery of current costs through future rates charged to customers, we defer these costs as Regulatory assets that otherwise would be expensed by non regulated companies. Likewise, we recognize Regulatory liabilities when it is probable that regulators will require customer refunds through future rates and when revenue is collected from customers for expenses that are not yet incurred. Regulatory assets are amortized into expense and Regulatory liabilities are amortized into income over the recovery period authorized by the regulator.We evaluate our Regulatory assets to determine whether or not they are probable of recovery through future rates and make various assumptions in our analyses. The expectations of future recovery are generally based on orders issued by regulatory commissions or historical experience, as well as discussions with applicable regulatory authorities. If recovery of a regulatory asset is determined to be less than probable, it will be expensed in the period the assessment is made. We currently believe the recovery of our Regulatory assets is probable. See Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 3 Regulatory Matters of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements.AROsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for AROs, legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets are required to be recognized at their fair value at the time those obligations are incurred. Upon initial recognition of a legal liability, costs are capitalized as part of the related long lived asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the asset. These GAAP provisions also require that components of previously recorded depreciation related to the cost of removal of assets upon future retirement, whether legal AROs or not, must be removed from a companys accumulated depreciation reserve and be reclassified as a regulatory liability. We make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to AROs. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time. See Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.46Table of ContentsImpairmentsIn accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for impairments, long lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When required, impairment losses on assets to be held and used are recognized based on the fair value of the asset group. Impairment losses on assets held for sale are recognized based on the fair value of the disposal group. We determine the fair value of these assets based upon estimates of future cash flows, market value of similar assets, if available, or independent appraisals, if required. In analyzing the fair value and recoverability using future cash flows, we make projections based on a number of assumptions and estimates of growth rates, future economic conditions, assignment of discount rates and estimates of terminal values. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the long lived asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. The measurement of impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset.Pension and Postretirement BenefitsWe account for and disclose pension and postemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of GAAP relating to the accounting for pension and other postemployment plans. These GAAP provisions require the use of assumptions, such as the discount rate for liabilities and long term rate of return on assets, in determining the obligations, annual cost, and funding requirements of the plans. See Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 Benefit Plans of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements for more information.Contingent and Other ObligationsDuring the conduct of our business, we are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that potentially subject us to environmental, litigation, insurance and other risks. We periodically evaluate our exposure to such risks and record estimated liabilities for those matters where a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with GAAP. In recording such estimated liabilities, we may make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses as they relate to contingent and other obligations. These assumptions and estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions and may be subject to change. We believe such estimates and assumptions are reasonable.Recently Issued Accounting PronouncementsA discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is in Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements and such discussion is incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.LEGAL AND OTHER MATTERSDiscussions of legal and other matters are provided in Item 1 Business "Environmental Matters", Item 1 Business "Competition and Regulation" and Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Such discussions are incorporated by reference in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and made a part hereof.Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskWe are subject to certain market risks including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices for electricity and fluctuations in interest rates. We use various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to limit our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Our U.S. Risk Management Committee (U.S. RMC), comprised of members of senior management, is responsible for establishing risk management policies and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures related to our operations. The U.S. RMC meets on a regular basis with the objective of identifying, assessing and quantifying material risk issues and developing strategies to manage these risks.The disclosures presented in this section are based upon a number of assumptions; actual effects may differ. The safe harbor provided in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 47Table of Contents1934 shall apply to the disclosures contained in this section. For further information regarding market risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance; and we may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in interest rates.Purchased power costsDP&L conducts competitive bid auctions to purchase power for SSO service, as all of DP&Ls SSO is sourced through the competitive bid auction.As a result of DPLs exit from the majority of its coal fired generation, changes in the prices of fuel and purchased power are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Interest rate riskBecause of our normal investing and borrowing activities, our financial results are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, which we manage through our regular financing activities. We maintain both cash on deposit and investments in cash equivalents that may be affected by adverse interest rate fluctuations. DPL and DP&L have both fixed rate and variable rate long term debt. On November 21, 2016, the DP&L $200.0 million variable rate First Mortgage Bonds were hedged with floating for fixed interest rate swaps, reducing interest rate risk exposure for the term of the bonds. On January 1, 2018 the interest rate on these First Mortgage Bonds was adjusted and as a result the bonds are no longer fully hedged and are treated as variable. Market indexes can be affected by market demand, supply, market interest rates and other economic conditions. See Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DPLs Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 7 Long term debt of Notes to DP&Ls Financial Statements. At December 31, 2018, a 1% change in interest rates would result in an approximately $14.9 million change in DPLs interest expense and an approximately $5.9 million change in DP&Ls interest expense.Principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dateThe principal amount of DPLs long term debt was $1,488.4 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of DPLs unsecured notes, secured term loan, Capital Trust II securities along with DP&Ls First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. All of DPLs existing debt was adjusted to fair value at the Merger date according to FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 805, Business Combinations. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $1,519.6 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DPLs debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes:DPL Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $99.1 $0.2 $780.2 $0.2 $0.2 $32.4 912.3 943.5 Average interest rate 6.7% 4.2% 7.2% 4.2% 4.2% 6.1% Total $1,488.4 $1,519.648Table of ContentsThe principal amount of DP&Ls long term debt was $593.8 million at December 31, 2018, consisting of its First Mortgage Bonds, tax exempt First Mortgage Bonds and the WPAFB note. The fair value of this debt at December 31, 2018 was $593.8 million, based on current market prices or discounted cash flows using current rates for similar issues with similar terms and remaining maturities. The following table provides information about DP&Ls debt obligations that are sensitive to interest rate changes. The DP&L debt was not revalued using push down accounting as a result of the Merger.DP&L Years ending December 31, Principal amount at December 31, Fair value at December 31,$ in millions 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter 2018 2018Long term debt (a) Variable rate debt $4.5 $144.5 $4.5 $422.6 $ $ $576.1 $576.1 Average interest rate 4.4% 3.0% 4.4% 4.4% % % Fixed rate debt $0.1 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $0.2 $16.8 17.7 17.7 Average interest rate 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% Total $593.8 $593.8Equity price riskAt December 31, 2018, approximately 33% of the defined benefit pension plan assets were comprised of investments in equity securities and 67% related to investments in fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and alternative investments. The equity securities are carried at their market value of approximately $105.2 million at December 31, 2018. A hypothetical 10% decrease in prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $10.5 million reduction in fair value at December 31, 2018 and approximately a $1.6 million increase to the 2019 pension expense.Credit riskCredit risk is the risk of an obligors failure to meet the terms of any investment contract, loan agreement or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk arises from all activities in which success depends on issuer, borrower or counterparty performance, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. We limit our credit risk by assessing the creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continue to evaluate their creditworthiness after transactions have been originated. We use the three leading corporate credit rating agencies and other current market based qualitative and quantitative data to assess the financial strength of counterparties on an ongoing basis. We may require various forms of credit assurance from counterparties to mitigate credit risk.
</SECTION>
