<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: PRIDE INTERNATIONAL INC
CIK: 0000833081
SIC: 1381
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20101231
FILE DATE: 20110218
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in Item 8 of this annual report. The following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors in Item 1A and elsewhere in this annual report. See Forward Looking Statements below. Overview We are one of the worlds largest offshore drilling contractors. As of February 18, 2011, we operated a fleet of 26 rigs, consisting of five deepwater drillships, 12 semisubmersible rigs, seven independent leg jackups and two managed deepwater drilling rigs. We also have two deepwater drillships under construction. Our customers include major integrated oil and natural gas companies, state owned national oil companies and independent oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors range from large international companies offering a wide range of drilling services to smaller companies focused on more specific geographic or technological areas. Our primary strategic focus is on ownership and operation of floating offshore rigs, particularly deepwater rigs. Although crude oil prices have declined from the record levels reached in mid 2008, they have maintained a trading range in excess of $60 per barrel since August 2009, averaging approximately $80 per barrel in 2010, with a high closing price per barrel of $91.48 in December 2010. The market for deepwater drilling services remains uncertain in the near term, due especially to continued concern stemming from the global recession and the moratorium on offshore drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in 2010. However, we believe the long term prospects for deepwater drilling are positive given the expected growth in oil consumption from developing nations, limited growth in crude oil supplies and high depletion rates of mature oil fields, together with geologic successes, improving access to promising offshore areas and new, more efficient technologies, including enhanced reservoir recovery techniques. Since 2005, we have invested or committed to invest over $4.4 billion in the expansion of our deepwater fleet, including five new ultra deepwater drillships, three of which were delivered in the first and third quarters of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011, and two of which are under construction with expected delivery dates in the fourth quarter of 2011 and third quarter of 2013. The three new drillships that have been delivered have multi year contracts at favorable rates. Since 2005, we also have disposed of non core assets, generating $1.6 billion in proceeds, enabling us to focus increasingly our financial and human capital on deepwater drilling. With the tendency for deepwater drilling programs to be more insulated from short term commodity price fluctuations, we expect that the deepwater market will outperform other offshore drilling market sectors over the long term. In addition, an increasing focus on deepwater prospects by national oil companies, whose exploration and production spending is less sensitive to general economic factors, serve to provide further stability in the deepwater sector. However, the Macondo well incident and its consequences, as discussed further below, have increased the near term uncertainty in the sector. Our contract backlog at December 31, 2010 totaled $6.4 billion and was comprised primarily of contracts for our deepwater rigs awarded by large integrated oil and national oil companies. Recent Developments Proposed Merger with Ensco On February 6, 2011, we entered into a merger agreement with Ensco plc and two of its subsidiaries. Pursuant to the merger agreement and subject to the conditions provided in the agreement, we will merge with one of the subsidiaries and become an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Ensco. The combination will create the industrys second largest offshore drilling fleet. As a result of the merger, each outstanding share of our common stock (other than shares of our common stock held by Ensco, us or any of Enscos or our wholly owned subsidiaries (which will be cancelled as a result of the merger), those shares with respect to which appraisal rights under Delaware law are properly exercised and not withdrawn and other shares held by certain U.K. residents if determined by Ensco) will be converted into the right to receive $15.60 in cash and 0.4778 American depositary shares, representing Class A ordinary shares of Ensco. Under certain circumstances, UK residents may receive all cash consideration as a result of compliance with legal requirements. 28 Table of Contents We have agreed to various covenants under the merger agreement and the closing of the transaction is subject to a number of conditions. Please read Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional information about the terms of the transaction, our covenants under the merger agreement and the conditions to consummation of the transaction, as well as the financing commitments relating to the transaction. Please also read Risk Factors included in Item 1A. of Part I of this annual report for more information regarding risks relating to the transaction. Drillships Construction Projects On December 10, 2010, we entered into an agreement for the construction of a fifth new advanced capability, ultra deepwater drillship. The new drillship is based on a Samsung Heavy Industries proprietary hull design. The rig is designed for drilling in water depths of up to 12,000 feet, with a total vertical drilling depth of 40,000 feet. We believe the rigs design and capabilities, which includes a dual derrick, will allow for numerous well construction and field development activities that can be performed in parallel, producing increased rig efficiencies. Following shipyard construction, commissioning and testing, the drillship is expected to be delivered to us at the shipyard in mid 2013. The agreement provides for an aggregate fixed purchase price of $544 million, subject to adjustment for delayed delivery, payable in installments during the construction process. We have the right to rescind the agreement for delays exceeding certain periods and for failure of the drillship to meet certain operating requirements or, alternatively, the right to liquidated damages for such delays or failures. We expect the total project cost, including commissioning and testing, to be approximately $600 million, excluding capitalized interest. The agreement also includes an option for a second unit at similar terms and conditions, which may be exercised by us during the first quarter of 2011. In addition, we have an agreement for the construction of the ultra deepwater drillship, the Deep Ocean Molokai. The Deep Ocean Molokai has a scheduled delivery date in the fourth quarter of 2011. Including amounts already paid and commissioning and testing, we expect total project cost to be approximately $790 million, excluding capitalized interest. Through December 31, 2010, we have spent approximately $295 million on this project. Although we currently do not have drilling contracts for the Deep Ocean Molokai or our fifth ultra deepwater drillship, we expect that the long term demand for deepwater drilling capacity in established and emerging basins should provide us with opportunities to contract these two rigs prior to their delivery dates. There are risks of delay and cost overruns inherent in any major shipyard project, including those resulting from adverse weather conditions, work stoppages, disputes and financial and other difficulties encountered by the shipyard. In order to mitigate some of these risks, we have selected a high quality shipyard with a reputation for on time completions. In addition, our construction contracts are based on a fixed fee, backed by a refund guarantee if the unit is ultimately not finished or accepted by us upon completion. Deliveries by the shipyard beyond a certain point in time are subject to penalty payments and cancellation. We also believe that constructing a drilling rig at a single shipyard presents a lower risk profile than projects that call for construction in multiple phases at separate shipyards, although some risks are more concentrated. Recently Delivered Drillships On January 24, 2011, we took delivery of our third new ultra deepwater drillship, the Deep Ocean Mendocino. The Deep Ocean Mendocino is currently in transit to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico where it is expected to commence a five year contract with a subsidiary of Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. (Petrobras) during the second quarter of 2011, following completion of integrated testing and acceptance by the client. On February 28, 2010, we took delivery of the Deep Ocean Ascension, the first of our new ultra deepwater drillships under construction. The drillship arrived in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in May 2010 and has completed its acceptance testing with BP Exploration Production Inc. (BP EP). The rig was originally intended for drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. However, due to the moratorium on drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and more recently to regulatory changes that have created delays and uncertainty regarding the resumption of drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (discussed below under U.S. Gulf of Mexico), BP EP was unable to commence drilling operations with the Deep Ocean Ascension in the region according to its original schedule. In the third quarter of 2010, BP EP agreed to place the Deep Ocean Ascension on a special standby dayrate of $360,000. The special standby dayrate is effective from August 23, 2010 until the earlier of April 1, 2011 or the date the rig begins mobilization to its first drilling site, either within or outside the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The Deep Ocean Ascension is expected to mobilize to the Mediterranean Sea in the second quarter of 2011. 29 Table of Contents On September 23, 2010, we took delivery of our second new ultra deepwater drillship, the Deep Ocean Clarion. The drillship is currently in the process of finalizing the integrated acceptance testing program with BP EP in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the originally intended location for drilling operations. Due to delays and uncertainty regarding the resumption of drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (discussed below under U.S. Gulf of Mexico), in February 2011, BP EP agreed to place the Deep Ocean Clarion on a special standby dayrate of $380,000 prior to the startup of the previously agreed five year contract. The special standby dayrate will commence upon the earlier of completion of acceptance testing or March 1, 2011, and will continue until the earlier of the completion of certain customer requested modifications and upgrades or July 1, 2011. The Deep Ocean Clarion is expected to mobilize to a region outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico no later than July 1, 2011. BP EP owns a 65% working interest and is the operator of the exploration well associated with the Macondo well incident discussed below. While we currently expect BP EP to perform its obligations under the drilling contracts for the Deep Ocean Ascension and the Deep Ocean Clarion, we cannot predict what actions BP EP might attempt to take under the contracts or whether it ultimately will be able to perform its obligations in light of the incident and resulting spill. Our contracts with BP EP do not include a written parent company guarantee. BP EP may choose to exercise either contracts termination for convenience clause, under which BP EP would be required to provide a make whole payment to us that approximates the present value of the cash margin that would have been earned over the life of the contract. If BP EP fails to perform under the contracts, the drillships could be idle for an extended period of time. In that case, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced if we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, or at all. Amendment of Revolving Credit Facility and Issuance and Redemption of Senior Notes On July 30, 2010, we entered into an amended and restated unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that increased availability under the facility from $320 million to $720 million and extended the maturity from December 2011 to July 2013. On October 28, 2010, pursuant to the credit facilitys accordion feature, we increased the availability under the facility to $750 million. On August 6, 2010, we completed an offering of $900 million aggregate principal amount of our 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2020 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of our 7 7/8% Senior Notes due 2040. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering to redeem, on September 5, 2010, our entire outstanding $500 million aggregate principal amount of 7 3/8% Senior Notes due 2014 at a price of 102.458% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. We have used and expect to use the remainder of the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which have included and may include payments with respect to our drillships under construction and other capital expenditures. U.S. Gulf of Mexico In response to the April 2010 Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement of the U.S. Department of the Interior (BOEM), at the time known as the Minerals Management Service, implemented a moratorium on certain drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico until November 30, 2010. In October, 2010, the Secretary of the Interior directed the BOEM to lift the moratorium subject to certain specified conditions. During the pendency of the moratorium, the BOEM implemented various environmental, technological and safety measures intended to improve offshore safety systems and environmental protection. The newly issued safety regulations require operators to, among other things, submit independent third party reports on the design and operation of blowout preventers (BOPs) and other well control systems, and conduct tests on the functionality of well control systems. Additional regulations address new standards for certain equipment involved in the construction of offshore wells, especially BOPs, and require operators to implement and enforce a safety and environmental management system including regular third party audits of safety procedures and drilling equipment to insure that offshore rig personnel and equipment remain in compliance with the new regulations. Prior to the resumption of drilling following the moratorium, each operator is required to demonstrate that it has in place written and enforceable procedures, pursuant to applicable regulations, that ensure containment in the event of a deepwater blowout. We cannot currently predict the rate at which new well permits will be issued or the rate at which rigs will be allowed to return to work once compliance with the new regulations has been demonstrated. We believe, however, that the process followed by the BOEM to review and approve a well permit application by our clients will continue to be protracted relative to past experience, resulting in significant delays in the resumption of drilling in deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico that could persist through 2011. 30 Table of Contents The U.S. Gulf of Mexico represents one of three established deepwater drilling basins in the world and currently accounts for more than 20% of the industrys deepwater rig capacity. The region is a vital contributor to the economy in the United States, providing strong hydrocarbon production growth potential and significant employment opportunities. Despite the economic importance of the region, the deepwater drilling moratorium, and the significant delays in receiving drilling permits following the deepwater drilling moratorium and implementation of new regulations and offshore procedures, has created significant uncertainty regarding the outlook for the region and possible implications for regions outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Due to such uncertainty, some contract drillers and operators with floating rigs located in the region may choose to relocate the units to other international drilling areas. Through January 2011, five of the 33 floating rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico at the time of the incident have secured new drilling assignments and have relocated or will relocate to international locations. Should there continue to be significant delays in the issuance of drilling permits or in allowing rigs to operate upon demonstration of compliance with new regulations or should additional regulations and government oversight, operating procedures and the possibility of increased legal liability be viewed by our clients as a significant impairment to expected economic returns on projects in the region, additional floating rigs could depart the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, with fewer clients operating in the region. As a result, a more challenging business environment could develop in the international sector, characterized by increased supply of rig capacity and declining dayrates. In addition to the various environmental, technological and safety measures implemented during the pendency of the moratorium, we believe the U.S. government is likely to issue additional safety and environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and may take other steps that could delay operations, increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for drilling rigs. Other governments could take similar actions. Additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications and crew training and competency requirements could increase the costs of our operations. Generally, we would seek to pass increased operating costs to our customers through cost escalation or change in law provisions in existing contracts or through higher dayrates on new contracts, where appropriate. Additionally, increased costs for our customers operations, along with permitting delays, could affect the economics of currently planned and future exploration and development activity, especially in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and reduce demand for our services. Furthermore, due to the Macondo well incident and resulting spill, insurance costs across the industry could increase, and certain insurance may be less available or not available at all, which could apply to our fleet. The newly issued drilling equipment and safety requirements have imposed higher standards and could reduce the number of floating rigs capable of operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The operating limitation, if any, should be most evident in the industrys lower specification units, which possess dated technology and operating equipment. We believe that the advanced technical features and equipment configuration already present in our five newbuild drillships will result in these units being substantially compliant with the newly issued safety requirements and would satisfy any new equipment specification guidelines without significant modifications, which could establish them as a preferred drilling asset by clients. Except as described above under Recently Delivered Drillships and below under Segment Review Other Operations, we do not currently have any rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Seahawk Spin off and Subsequent Bankruptcy Filing On August 24, 2009, we completed the spin off of Seahawk, which holds the assets and liabilities that were associated with our mat supported jackup rig business. In the spin off, our stockholders received 100% (approximately 11.6 million shares) of the outstanding common stock of Seahawk by way of a pro rata stock dividend. Each of our stockholders of record at the close of business on August 14, 2009 received one share of Seahawk common stock for every 15 shares of our common stock held by such stockholder and cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Seahawk common stock to which such stockholder otherwise would have been entitled. In connection with the spin off, we made a cash contribution to Seahawk of approximately $47.3 million to achieve a targeted working capital for Seahawk as of May 31, 2009 of $85 million. We and Seahawk also agreed to indemnify each other for certain liabilities that may arise or be incurred in the future attributable to our respective businesses. In February 2011, Seahawk and several of its affiliates filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In the bankruptcy filings, we were listed as Seahawks largest unsecured creditor with a contingent, disputed, and unliquidated claim in the amount of approximately $16 million. The debt was listed as a trade payable, subject to setoff. The Seahawk debtors filed motions to sell substantially all of their assets and to obtain debtor in possession financing. The purchaser in the asset sale is proposed to be Hercules Offshore, Inc. and its affiliate SD Drilling LLC, which will pay base aggregate consideration consisting of approximately $25 million in cash and 22,321,425 shares of Hercules common stock. Prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy, Seahawk indicated an intention to seek, among other things, (i) to reject its outstanding contracts with us, thereby replacing Seahawks future performance obligations under the contracts with general unsecured claims in the bankruptcy, (ii) to seek a judicial determination or estimation of all of our claims against Seahawk, including indemnity claims and contract damage claims, and (iii) to set off claims Seahawk alleges it is owed for spin off transition and other matters against all amounts currently payable from Seahawk to us in respect of transition services and rig management services, and to seek to recover any positive balance after such netting. In addition, the bankruptcy laws permit a debtor in bankruptcy, under certain circumstances, to challenge pre bankruptcy payments or transfers of the debtors assets if the debtor received less than reasonably equivalent value while insolvent, or if the transfers were made with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud a creditor, or were made while insolvent on account of a pre existing debt that has the effect of preferring the transferee over the debtors other creditors during the so called preference period. Authorized representatives of the bankruptcy estate could seek to challenge transactions effected in connection with the spin off under the bankruptcy laws. 31 Table of Contents In 2006, 2007 and 2009, Seahawk received tax assessments from the Mexican government related to the operations of certain of its subsidiaries. Pursuant to local statutory requirements, Seahawk has provided and may provide additional surety bonds, letters of credit, or other suitable collateral to contest these assessments. Pursuant to a tax support agreement between us and Seahawk, we agreed, at Seahawks request, to guarantee or indemnify the issuer of any such surety bonds, letters of credit, or other collateral issued for Seahawks account in respect of such Mexican tax assessments made prior to the spin off date. On September 15, 2010, Seahawk requested that we provide credit support for four letters of credit issued for the appeals of four of Seahawks tax assessments. The amount of the request totaled approximately $48.4 million, based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2010. On October 28, 2010, we provided credit support in satisfaction of this request. Pursuant to the tax support agreement, Seahawk is required to pay us a fee based on the actual credit support provided. Seahawks quarterly fee payment due on December 31, 2010 was not made, which had the effect of terminating our obligation to provide further credit support under the tax support agreement. Further, on February 9, 2011, we sent a notice to Seahawk requesting that they provide cash collateral for the credit support that we previously provided on their behalf, as provided under the terms of the agreement. In connection with its bankruptcy filing, Seahawk is seeking to terminate its reimbursement obligations under the tax support agreement. If certain of Seahawks claims and requests were granted, the adverse effect on us could be material. We cannot currently predict what actions may be taken by the bankruptcy court or other creditors or stakeholders of Seahawk in connection with the proceeding, or the effect the actions may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. FCPA Investigation We have resolved with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission our previously disclosed investigations into potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In connection with the settlements, in the fourth quarter of 2010 we paid a total of $56.2 million in penalties, disgorgement and interest as described below. We had accrued this amount in the fourth quarter of 2009. The settlement with the DOJ included a deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) between us and the DOJ and a guilty plea by our French subsidiary, Pride Forasol S.A.S., to FCPA related charges. Under the DPA, the DOJ agreed to defer the prosecution of certain FCPA related charges against us and agreed not to bring any further criminal or civil charges against us or any of our subsidiaries related to either any of the conduct set forth in the statement of facts attached to the DPA or any other information we disclosed to the DOJ prior to the execution of the DPA. We agreed, among other things, to continue to cooperate with the DOJ, to continue to review and maintain our anti bribery compliance program and to submit to the DOJ three annual written reports regarding our progress and experience in maintaining and, as appropriate, enhancing our compliance policies and procedures. If we comply with the terms of the DPA, the deferred charges against us will be dismissed with prejudice. If, during the term of the DPA, the DOJ determines that we have committed a felony under federal law, provided deliberately false information or otherwise breached the DPA, we could be subject to prosecution and penalties for any criminal violation of which the DOJ has knowledge, including the deferred charges. In December 2010, pursuant to a plea agreement, Pride Forasol S.A.S. pled guilty in U.S. District Court to conspiracy and FCPA charges. Pride Forasol S.A.S. was sentenced to pay a criminal fine of $32.6 million and to serve a three year term of organizational probation. The SEC investigation was resolved in November 2010. Without admitting or denying the allegations in a civil complaint filed by the SEC, we consented to the entry of a final judgment ordering disgorgement plus pre judgment interest totaling $23.6 million and a permanent injunction against future violations of the FCPA. 32 Table of Contents We have received preliminary inquiries from governmental authorities of certain of the countries referenced in our settlements with the DOJ and SEC. We could face additional fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in these and other relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets. At this early stage of such inquiries, we are unable to determine what, if any, legal liability may result. Our customers in those jurisdictions could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. We could also face other third party claims by directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, stockholders, debt holders, or other interest holders or constituents of our company. For additional information regarding a stockholder demand letter and derivative cases with respect to these matters, please see the discussion under Demand Letter and Derivative Cases in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this annual report. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigations and settlements could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets. No amounts have been accrued related to any potential fines, sanctions, claims or other penalties referenced in this paragraph, which could be material individually or in the aggregate. We cannot currently predict what, if any, actions may be taken by any other applicable government or other authorities or our customers or other third parties or the effect the actions may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, on our consolidated financial statements or on our business in the countries at issue and other jurisdictions. In addition, in connection with the investigation, our former Chief Operating Officer resigned as an officer effective May 31, 2006 and remained in the capacity of an employee to assist us with the investigation and to be available for consultation and to answer questions relating to our business. He had agreed to retire upon the conclusion of the investigation, and his right to receive retirement benefits was subject to the determination by our board of directors that we did not have cause (as defined in his retirement agreement with us) to terminate his employment. The board of directors recently determined that we did not have requisite cause to terminate his employment and that his retirement date was December 31, 2010. Our Business We provide contract drilling services to major integrated, government owned and independent oil and natural gas companies throughout the world. Our drilling fleet competes on a global basis, as offshore rigs generally are highly mobile and may be moved from one region to another in response to demand. While the cost of moving a rig and the availability of rig moving vessels may cause the supply and demand balance to vary somewhat between regions, significant variations between regions do not tend to persist long term because of rig mobility. Key factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a contract include pricing, safety records and competency. Rig availability, location and technical ability can also be key factors in the determination. Currently, all of our drilling contracts with our customers are on a dayrate basis, where we charge the customer a fixed amount per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. We provide the rigs and drilling crews and are responsible for the payment of rig operating and maintenance expenses. Our customer bears the economic risk and benefit relative to the geologic success of the wells to be drilled. The markets for our drilling services have historically been highly cyclical. Our operating results are significantly affected by the level of energy industry spending for the exploration and development of crude oil and natural gas reserves. Oil and natural gas companies exploration and development drilling programs drive the demand for drilling services. These drilling programs are affected by a number of factors, including oil and natural gas companies expectations regarding crude oil and natural gas prices. Some drilling programs are influenced by short term expectations, such as shallow water drilling programs in various regions, while others, especially deepwater drilling programs, are typically subject to a longer term view of crude oil prices. Other drivers include anticipated production levels, worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas products and many other factors. Access to quality drilling prospects, exploration success, availability of qualified rigs and operating personnel, relative production costs, availability and lead time requirements for drilling and production equipment, the stage of reservoir development, permitting and political and regulatory environments also affect our customers drilling programs. Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile, which has historically led to significant fluctuations in expenditures by our customers for oil and natural gas drilling services. Variations in market conditions during the cycle impact us in different ways depending primarily on the length of drilling contracts in different regions. For example, contracts for jackup rigs in certain shallow water markets are shorter term, so a deterioration or improvement in market conditions tends to quickly impact revenues and cash flows from those operations. Contracts in deepwater and other international offshore markets tend to be longer term, so a change in market conditions tends to have a delayed impact. Accordingly, short term changes in market conditions may have minimal impact on revenues and cash flows from those operations unless the timing of contract renewals takes place during the short term changes in the market. 33 Table of Contents Our revenues depend principally upon the number of our available rigs, the number of days these rigs are utilized and the contract dayrates received. The number of days our rigs are utilized and the contract dayrates received are largely dependent upon the balance of supply of drilling rigs and demand for drilling services for the different rig classes we operate, as well as our rigs operational performance, including mechanical efficiency. The number of rigs we have available may increase or decrease as a result of the acquisition or disposal of rigs, the construction of new rigs, the number of rigs being upgraded or repaired or undergoing standard periodic surveys or routine maintenance at any time and the number of rigs idled during periods of oversupply in the market or when we are unable to contract our rigs at economical rates. In order to improve utilization or realize higher contract dayrates, we may mobilize our rigs from one geographic region to another for which we may receive a mobilization fee from the client. The mobilization fee is intended to cover the cost of moving the rig and, during periods when rigs are in short supply, may provide revenues in excess of the cost to mobilize the unit. Mobilization fees received prior to commencement of the drilling contract are deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the drilling contract. We organize our reportable segments based on the water depth operating capabilities of our drilling rigs. Our reportable segments include Deepwater, which consists of our drillships and semisubmersible rigs capable of drilling in water depths of 4,500 feet and greater; Midwater, which consists of our semisubmersible rigs capable of drilling in water depths of 4,499 feet or less; and Independent Leg Jackup, which consists of our jackup rigs capable of operating in water depths up to 300 feet. We also manage the drilling operations for two deepwater drilling and production units owned by two clients, which are included in a non reported operating segment along with corporate costs and other operations. Our earnings from operations are primarily affected by revenues, utilization of our fleet and the cost of labor, repairs, insurance and maintenance. Many of our drilling contracts covering multiple years allow us to adjust the dayrates charged to our customer based on changes in operating costs, such as labor costs, maintenance and repair costs and insurance costs. Some of our costs are fixed in nature or do not vary at the same time or to the same degree as changes in revenue. For instance, if a rig is expected to be idle between contracts and earn no revenue, we may maintain our rig crew, which reduces our earnings as we cannot fully offset the impact of the lost revenues with reductions in operating costs. In addition, some drilling contracts provide for the payment of bonus revenues, representing a percentage of the rigs contract dayrate and based on the rig meeting defined operations performance criteria during a period. Our industry has traditionally been affected by shortages of, and competition for, skilled rig crew personnel during periods of high levels of activity. Even as overall industry activity declines, we expect these personnel shortages to continue, especially in the Deepwater segment, due to the number of newbuild deepwater rigs expected to be delivered through 2013 and the need for highly skilled personnel to operate these rigs. To better retain and attract skilled rig personnel, we offer competitive compensation programs and have increased our focus on training and management development programs. Following an increase in 2009, labor costs continued to increase in 2010, especially for skilled personnel in certain geographic locations, such as Brazil, Angola and the United States. The increase in labor costs during 2010 was most pronounced in the Deepwater segment, and this increase in cost is expected to persist in 2011. Beginning in 2005, the demand for contract drilling services increased significantly, resulting in increased demand for oilfield equipment and spare parts. This increased demand, when coupled with the consolidation of equipment suppliers, resulted in longer order lead times to obtain critical spare parts and other equipment components essential to our business, along with higher repair and maintenance costs and longer out of service time for major repair and upgrade projects. We maintain higher levels of critical spare parts in an effort to minimize unplanned downtime. With the decline in prices for steel and other key inputs that started in 2009 and the slow return in the level of business activity during 2010, we experienced some softening of lead times and pricing for spare parts and equipment during 2010. 34 Table of Contents Crude oil prices have maintained a trading range in excess of $60 per barrel since August 2009 and averaged approximately $80 per barrel in 2010. Crude oil prices fell to $34 per barrel in February 2009 following the onset of the global financial crisis, deteriorating global economic fundamentals and the resulting drop in crude oil demand in a number of the worlds largest oil consuming nations. These factors had a negative impact on customer demand for offshore rigs throughout 2009, as evidenced by an estimated 15% decline in global exploration and production spending according to the Barclays Capital EP Spending Survey. While the initial months of 2010 were characterized by a cautious pattern from many operators toward new exploration and production spending commitments similar to what was experienced in 2009, evidence was present that supported increased spending with a number of new drilling programs commencing in 2011 and beyond, largely supported by operators increasing confidence in the re establishment of global economic growth and the sustainability of crude oil prices. However, following the April 2010 Macondo well incident and subsequent government actions, a new level of uncertainty among operators developed, with many choosing to delay the commencement of certain projects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and other regions pending further clarity on a number of industry issues. Worldwide offshore fleet utilization remained flat at approximately 73% at December 31, 2010 compared to 74% at December 31, 2009. Utilization for the industrys deepwater fleet has historically been less sensitive to the extreme fluctuations experienced within the shallow water market even during market downturns. The timing of potentially higher spending patterns, especially in deepwater, is expected to remain uncertain until operators have gained more clarity concerning the long term implications to our industry of the Macondo well incident, including an understanding of the impact of new operating regulations and government oversight. We believe that sustained oil prices above $60 per barrel since mid 2009 have contributed to increased confidence among operators and should lead to increased exploration and production spending, especially in international locations. However, operators will need to be confident in stronger oil market fundamentals supported by broadening global economic improvement, leading to increased crude oil demand, especially among member countries of the Organization for Economic Co operation and Development. We believe that long term market conditions for offshore drilling services are supported by sound fundamental factors but that future demand for our rigs in the worldwide market is uncertain in the short term due to the Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We expect the long term global demand for deepwater contract drilling services to be driven by growing worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas as global populations expand and economic growth accelerates, along with an increased focus by oil and natural gas companies on deepwater offshore prospects and increased global participation by national oil companies. Customer requirements for deepwater drilling capacity have grown since 2005 as the successful results in exploration drilling, especially since the late 1990s, have led to numerous prolonged field development programs around the world, but especially in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Brazil and Angola. This success has contributed to the demand for a number of our deepwater assets by our clients through the next decade, especially those rigs that are capable of operating in water depths of 6,000 feet and greater and that possess advanced features, such as dynamic positioning, and well construction capabilities that offer increased drilling efficiencies. Geological successes in exploratory markets, such as the numerous discoveries to date in the pre salt formation offshore Brazil, the lower tertiary trend in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and deeper waters offshore Angola, along with the continued development of a number of deepwater projects in each of these regions, are expected to produce long term growing demand from clients for deepwater rigs. Following a record 25 deepwater discoveries in 2009, operators announced a record 31 deepwater discoveries in 2010 covering an expanding number of offshore basins, such as Ghana, the pre salt formation offshore Brazil and Sierra Leone, further supporting the long term sustainability of deepwater drilling demand. Announced discoveries in 2010 included discoveries along East Africa offshore Mozambique and Tanzania, representing the initial deepwater wells drilled offshore in this vast, emerging province. Additional exploration drilling opportunities offshore East Africa are expected to develop in the future with client interest expressed offshore Kenya and Madagascar. In addition, international oil companies are experiencing greater access to other promising areas offshore, such as India, Malaysia, Brunei, Australia, Sao Tom, Prncipe, Liberia, Gabon, Greenland and the Black Sea. We anticipate that the combination of drilling successes, greater access to offshore basins, enhanced hydrocarbon recovery methods and continued advances in offshore drilling technology, which support increased efficiency in field development efforts like parallel drilling activities, will support the long term outlook for deepwater rig demand. However, the possible increase in the international rig supply caused by new regulations and delays in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could lead to an imbalance of supply, leading to a more challenging environment in the short term. Our deepwater fleet currently operates in Brazil, West Africa and the Mediterranean Sea. As described above under Recent Developments, the Deep Ocean Ascension is currently in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and has completed its acceptance testing and is currently on the special standby dayrate awaiting instructions from our client to commence mobilization to the Mediterranean Sea. We took delivery of the Deep Ocean Clarion in September 2010, and the rig arrived in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in January 2011 where it is finalizing customer testing and acceptance. The rig will be placed on a special standby dayrate on or before March 1, 2011 prior to commencing its five year contract with BP EP, which is expected to be no later than July 1, 2011. In January 2011, we took delivery of the Deep Ocean Mendocino. The rig is currently in transit to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico where it is expected to commence a five year contract with Petrobras during the second quarter of 2011, following customer testing and acceptance. Including rig days for our two remaining drillships currently under construction, based upon their scheduled delivery dates, we currently have 85% of our available rig days contracted for our deepwater fleet in 2011, with 75% in 2012, 60% in 2013 and 46% in 2014. Since an increase in customer demand for deepwater drilling rigs began in 2005, a high percentage of the industrys deepwater fleet of 141 units accumulated large contract backlogs and remained under contract through 2010. This high customer demand led to a steep rise in deepwater rig dayrates, which peaked above $600,000 per day for some multi year contracts awarded in 2008. Although declines in dayrates have occurred from peak levels, contract awards for deepwater rigs equipped with dynamic positioning technology, capable of drilling in greater than 7,000 feet of water and available in 2010 remained above $400,000 per day, with contract awards in early 2011 exceeding $450,000 per day. These dayrates have been supported by strong geologic success, especially in Brazil, West Africa, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and some of the new and emerging deepwater regions, which have led to a growing number of commercial discoveries. 35 Table of Contents In Brazil, exploration drilling in the countrys prolific pre salt formation has found numerous crude oil deposits of significant size residing more than 185 miles offshore and in up to 7,000 feet of water in the Santos Basin. Results of recent appraisal wells to define the potential size of these fields have confirmed the magnitude of the hydrocarbon complex. The successful drilling results in Brazil and aggressive exploration and development calendar have resulted in an announced exploration and production spending plan by Petrobras, the national oil company of Brazil, of over $200 billion from 2010 to 2014 to support development of the pre salt formation and other global interests. The spending plan includes the need for 40 or more incremental deepwater rigs to be deployed in the numerous pre salt fields discovered to date. Petrobras contracted 12 of the 40 rigs in 2008 from the international market and in February 2011 ordered seven rigs from a Brazilian shipyard with initial deliveries expected by 2015. Petrobras could order additional rigs from Brazilian shipyards or contract the needed rigs from the international rig market. Rigs obtained from the international rig market could represent additional demand in the short term. In addition to the successful pre salt geological trend in the Santos Basin offshore Brazil, a similar pre salt geologic trend has been identified offshore West Africa, which could lead to increased deepwater drilling in that region over the coming years. In January 2011, Sonangol, the national oil company of Angola, began awarding offshore oil blocks residing in the countrys pre salt trend, representing an initial step toward the exploration of this highly prospective area. In addition, deepwater drilling economics have been aided in recent years by an expectation of higher average crude oil prices, supported by global population growth and economic expansion and an increased number of deepwater discoveries containing large volumes of hydrocarbons. These improving factors associated with deepwater activity have produced a growing base of development programs requiring multiple years to complete and resulting in long term contract awards by our customers, especially for projects in the three traditional deepwater basins, and represents a significant portion of our revenue backlog that currently extends into 2017. Industry uncertainty, due in part to the Macondo well incident and the U.S. governments response, and its impact on our clients long term planning horizons has resulted in some clients delaying decisions on deepwater drilling requirements. These delayed contracting decisions, together with limited charter of rig time between clients, have contributed to a decline in dayrates for deepwater rigs from levels experienced in 2008 as more units compete for a reduced number of contract opportunities. The lower utilization and dayrate decline are most pronounced among the conventionally moored deepwater semisubmersibles, which generally have the ability to operate in water depths of up to 6,000 feet and employ less sophisticated features. Dayrates for rigs of this technical specification, where eight units in the global fleet are currently idle, have weakened considerably from peak levels experienced during 2008 and could experience further weakness into 2011 as a growing number of rigs complete contracts. Dayrates for the industrys technologically advanced deepwater rigs have also declined from the peak levels in 2008, including those possessing dynamic positioning technology and more efficient well construction features. However, due to operator preference for the advanced capabilities of these units, it is expected that utilization will remain high over the coming years, but dayrates could adjust lower in the near term for several reasons, including continued delay by clients of the commencement of offshore programs, especially the large development programs that typically take multiple years to complete. Also, the increase in deepwater drilling capacity, particularly in 2011 and 2012 when as many as 12 uncommitted new deepwater rigs are expected to complete construction programs and enter the active global fleet, could place dayrates for these rigs under additional pressure. Many of the 12 uncommitted units are currently owned by new entrants to our business, possessing limited industry knowledge, global operational infrastructure and client relationships. We believe these attributes along with higher customer and regulatory standards are important considerations for our clients and will allow us to compete effectively for contract opportunities during this period of increased industry supply. However, we estimate that the Macondo well incident and resulting regulatory actions related to drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could continue to drive the relocation of a number of the deepwater rigs in the region to international locations, which would place dayrates and utilization for rigs in these locations under further pressure. As of December 31, 2010, six deepwater rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have relocated or have been identified for relocation to other regions with additional relocations possible. 36 Table of Contents In 2011, new orders for 14 deepwater rigs have been placed by eight contractors with expected deliveries during 2013. The new orders, and our recent order for a fifth drillship placed in December 2010, are driven primarily by attractive pricing and payment terms offered by a number of shipyards and the increasingly favorable long term outlook for the deepwater sector. In light of the possible relocation of additional floating rigs out of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, new deepwater rig capacity additions and increased availability of existing deepwater rigs as current contracts conclude over the next 12 months, dayrates and utilization for all deepwater rigs could have difficulty maintaining current levels until client demand begins to accelerate and there is an increase in multi year field development projects. An encouraging indicator in the second half of 2010 and into the early months of 2011 was the existence of several contract awards, along with client tenders and inquiries for deepwater rigs with some project commencement dates in 2011. These projects are located in various areas, including the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Angola and Brazil, where there is a building expectation that Petrobras will seek deepwater rig availability in the near term to address its growing pre salt development needs, as well as emerging regions along Africa, Europe and the Far East. Should this trend continue, we believe that the industrys most sophisticated units could experience improvement during 2011 from the dayrate ranges experienced over most of 2010. Our Midwater segment consists of six semisubmersible rigs. Five of the rigs currently operate offshore Brazil, with one rig, the Pride South Seas, cold stacked in South Africa. Recently, however, client interest in this rig has developed and, as a result, we are currently in the process of reactivating and marketing it to fill client needs in 2011. We currently have 77% of our available rig days contracted for our midwater fleet in 2011, with 35% in 2012, 14% in 2013 and none in 2014. Utilization of the industrys midwater fleet was 80% at December 31, 2010, with 23 rigs idle around the world compared to utilization of 84% at the same time in 2009, when 18 rigs were idle. Economic instability and uncertainty in crude oil markets contributed to a growing number of inactive midwater rigs and this reduced level of activity was present through 2010, contributing to a more challenging dayrate environment. A modest increase in midwater activity during 2010 was most evident in Australia and in the U.K. and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea as these areas responded positively to improved prices for North Sea Brent crude oil, which averaged $84 per barrel in 2010, compared to $62 per barrel in 2009. A persistent weakness in the deepwater rig segment for conventionally moored deepwater rigs could result in additional pressure to Midwater segment utilization and dayrates in 2011, as these more capable rigs are forced to bid reduced dayrates on work programs in shallower water depths in an attempt to remain active, thereby eliminating a contract opportunity that may have otherwise been available to a midwater unit. Also, the number of midwater rigs located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico has declined significantly over the past 10 years due primarily to the risk of mooring system failures during hurricane season, marginal geologic prospects and more attractive opportunities in other regions, such as Brazil. We expect the worldwide supply of available midwater rigs to exceed client demand for the first half of 2011 with most contract opportunities characterized by short durations of six months or less. Our Independent Leg Jackup segment, consisting of seven rigs, currently operates in the Middle East. We currently have 27% of our available rig days contracted for our independent leg jackup fleet in 2011, with 14% contracted in 2012 and 2013, and 1% in 2014. Four of our seven standard independent leg jackup rigs are currently without a contract, with limited prospects for work into the first half of 2011. Customer demand for jackup rigs declined steadily in 2010 while contract backlogs fell throughout the industrys existing fleet of rigs and incremental capacity increased. As of December 31, 2010, 104 independent leg jackup rigs were idle in the global fleet out of a total fleet of 412, representing segment utilization of 75%. The addition of new jackup rig capacity in the industry represents a long term threat to the segment, due in part to the geologic maturity of many shallow water drilling basins around the world, in contrast to the early stages of exploration and development characterized by most of the worlds deepwater basins. Since 2007, 88 jackup rigs have been added to the global fleet, with another 47 rigs expected to be added by the end of 2013. At December 31, 2010, 36 of the 47 expected incremental jackup rigs were without contracts. Despite the overall decline in jackup fleet utilization since 2009, customer demand for high specification units improved in 2010, with utilization of these rigs exceeding 90% and dayrates registering modest gains. These units possess advanced features, including greater hook loads, extended cantilever reach and the ability to drill wells with high pressure and temperature characteristics, such as those common in the UK and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea. Conversely, demand for the industrys standard international class jackup rigs, which possess dated features and technology, has declined significantly since 2009 and is expected to be flat through 2011. We experienced approximately 730 out of service days for shipyard maintenance and upgrade projects for 2010 for our existing fleet as compared to approximately 660 days for 2009. The increase in out of service days in 2010 is primarily due to an increase of planned shipyard construction projects in our Independent Leg Jackup and Midwater segments partially offset by a reduction of planned projects in our Deepwater segment. 37 Table of Contents Backlog Our contracted backlog at December 31, 2010, totaled approximately $6.4 billion for our executed contracts. We expect approximately $1.6 billion of our total backlog to be realized in 2011. Our backlog at December 31, 2009 was approximately $6.9 billion. We calculate our backlog, or future contracted revenue for our offshore fleet, as the contract dayrate multiplied by the number of days remaining on the contract, assuming full utilization. Backlog excludes revenues for mobilization, demobilization, contract preparation, customer reimbursables and performance bonuses. The amount of actual revenues earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned will be different than the amount disclosed or expected due to various factors. Downtime due to various operating factors, including unscheduled repairs, maintenance, weather and other factors, may result in lower applicable dayrates than the full contractual operating dayrate, as well as the ability of our customers to terminate contracts under certain circumstances. The following table reflects the percentage of rig days committed by year as of December 31, 2010. The percentage of rig days committed is calculated as the ratio of total days committed under firm contracts, as well as scheduled shipyard, survey and mobilization days, to total available days in the period. Total available days have been calculated based on the expected delivery dates for our deepwater rigs under construction. For the Years Ending December 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 Rig Days Committed Deepwater 85 % 75 % 60 % 46 % Midwater 77 % 35 % 14 % 0 % Independent Leg Jackups 27 % 14 % 14 % 1 % Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other information and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be perceived with certainty and, accordingly, these estimates may change as additional information is obtained, as more experience is acquired, as our operating environment changes and as new events occur. Our critical accounting estimates are important to the portrayal of both our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make difficult, subjective or complex assumptions or estimates about matters that are uncertain. We would report different amounts in our consolidated financial statements, which could be material, if we used different assumptions or estimates. We have discussed the development and selection of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below. During the past three fiscal years, we have not made any material changes in accounting methodology used to establish the critical accounting estimates for property and equipment, income taxes and contingent liabilities. We believe that the following are the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. In addition, there are other items within our consolidated financial statements that require estimation. Property and Equipment Property and equipment comprise a significant amount of our total assets. We determine the carrying value of these assets based on property and equipment policies that incorporate our estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to the carrying value, remaining useful lives and salvage value of our rigs. We depreciate our property and equipment over the estimated useful lives using the straight line method. The assumptions and judgments we use in determining the estimated useful lives of our rigs reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future operations, utilization and performance. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgments in the establishment of estimated useful lives, especially those involving our rigs, would likely result in materially different net book values of our property and equipment and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Useful lives of rigs and related equipment are difficult to estimate due to a variety of factors, including technological advances that impact the methods or cost of oil and natural gas exploration and development, changes in market or economic conditions and changes in laws or regulations affecting the drilling industry. We evaluate the remaining useful lives of our rigs when certain events occur that directly impact our assessment of the remaining useful lives of the rigs and include changes in operating condition, functional capability and market and economic factors. We also consider major capital upgrades required to perform certain contracts and the long term impact of those upgrades on the future marketability when assessing the useful lives of individual rigs. During 2010 and 2008, we extended the useful lives of certain of our rigs based on the results of our review of the useful lives of the rigs upon completion of shipyard projects. In 2010, this change resulted in a reduction in depreciation expense in 2010 of $4.3 million for continuing operations and increased after tax diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $0.02. In 2008, this change to the useful lives reduced depreciation expense by $2.4 million and $0.5 million for continuing and discontinued operations, respectively, and increased after tax diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $0.01. During 2009, based on the results of our review of the useful lives of rigs that completed shipyard projects, we had no adjustments to the useful lives of the rigs. We review our property and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of such assets or asset groups may not be recoverable. Indicators of possible impairment include (i) extended periods of idle time and or an inability to contract specific assets or groups of assets, (ii) a significant adverse change in business climate, such as a decline in our market value or fleet utilization, or (iii) an adverse change in the manner or physical condition of a group of assets or a specific asset. However, the drilling industry is highly cyclical and it is not unusual to find that assets that were idle, under utilized or contracted at sub economic rates for significant periods of time resume activity at economic rates when market conditions improve. Additionally, our rigs are mobile, and we may mobilize rigs from one market to another to improve utilization or realize higher dayrates. We monitor our recorded asset values every quarter to determine if there has been a triggering event that may result in impairment to any of our assets. As of December 31, 2010, we determined that we had no triggering event and no impairment to any of our rigs. We use estimated future undiscounted cash flow analyses to determine whether the carrying values of our assets are recoverable. In general, the analyses are based on expected costs, utilization and dayrates for the estimated remaining useful lives of the asset or group of assets being assessed. An impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the aggregate carrying amount of the assessed asset or group of assets is not recoverable. Asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. They involve expectations about future cash flows generated by our assets, and reflect managements assumptions and judgments regarding future industry conditions and their effect on future utilization levels, dayrates and costs. The use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets and could materially affect our results of operations. Income Taxes Our income tax expense is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We provide for income taxes based on the tax laws and rates in effect in the countries in which operations are conducted and income is earned. The income tax rates and methods of computing taxable income vary substantially in each jurisdiction. Our income tax expense is expected to fluctuate from year to year as our operations are conducted in different taxing jurisdictions and the amount of pre tax income fluctuates. The determination and evaluation of our annual income tax provision involves the interpretation of tax laws in various jurisdictions in which we operate and requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements, treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or our levels of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction may impact our tax liability in any given year. While our annual tax provision is based on the information available to us at the time, a number of years may elapse before the ultimate tax liabilities in certain tax jurisdictions are determined. 39 Table of Contents Current income tax expense reflects an estimate of our income tax liability for the current year, withholding taxes, changes in prior year tax estimates as returns are filed, or from tax audit adjustments. Our deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of deferred tax assets or liabilities as reflected on the balance sheet. Valuation allowances are determined to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To determine the amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as of the valuation allowances, we must make estimates and certain assumptions regarding future taxable income, including where the rigs are expected to be deployed, as well as other assumptions related to our future tax position. A change in such estimates and assumptions, along with any changes in tax laws, could require us to adjust the deferred tax assets, liabilities, or valuation allowances as discussed below. As of December 31, 2010, we have net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. With respect to essentially all of our foreign NOL carryforwards we have recognized a valuation allowance. Certain NOL carryforwards do not expire while others could expire starting in 2011 through 2030. We have not provided for U.S. deferred taxes and related foreign dividend withholding taxes on approximately $2,235.9 million of unremitted earnings of our foreign controlled subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. If a distribution is made to us from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, we could be required to record additional taxes. It is not practicable to determine the amount of additional taxes that may be assessed upon distribution of unremitted earnings. As required by law, we file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and examination by various tax authorities within the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are currently contesting several tax assessments and may contest future assessments where we believe the assessments are in error. We cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome of existing or future tax assessments; however, we believe the ultimate resolution of outstanding tax assessments will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. We do not believe that it is possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates identified because the resulting change to our tax liability, if any, is dependent on numerous underlying factors that cannot be reasonably estimated. These include, among other things, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the tax paid to one country to either produce, or fail to produce, an offsetting tax change in other countries. Our experience has been that the estimates and assumptions we have used to provide for future tax assessments have been appropriate; however, past experience is only a guide and the tax resulting from the resolution of current and potential future tax controversies may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Contingencies We establish reserves for estimated loss contingencies when we believe a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Our contingent liability reserves relate primarily to litigation, personal injury claims, indemnities and potential income and other tax assessments (see also Income Taxes above). Revisions to contingent liability reserves are reflected in income in the period in which different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect our previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Reserves for contingent liabilities are based upon our assumptions and estimates regarding the probable outcome of the matter and include our costs to defend. In situations where we expect insurance proceeds to offset contingent liabilities, we record a receivable for all probable recoveries up until the net loss is zero. We recognize contingent gains when the contingency is resolved and the gain has been realized. Should the outcome differ from our assumptions and estimates or other events result in a material adjustment to the accrued estimated contingencies, revisions to the estimated contingency amounts would be required and would be recognized in the period the new information becomes known. 40 Table of Contents Segment Review The following table summarizes our revenues and earnings from continuing operations by our reportable segments: For the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Deepwater revenues: Revenues, excluding reimbursables $ 916.3 $ 810.3 $ 874.6 Reimbursable revenues 14.2 12.8 7.6 Total Deepwater revenues 930.5 823.1 882.2 Midwater revenues: Revenues, excluding reimbursables 365.8 412.9 419.5 Reimbursable revenues 1.7 6.5 6.0 Total Midwater revenues 367.5 419.4 425.5 Independent Leg Jackup revenues: Revenues, excluding reimbursables 89.4 264.0 273.9 Reimbursable revenues 1.3 1.3 1.3 Total Independent Leg Jackup revenues 90.7 265.3 275.2 Other 70.9 83.0 119.2 Corporate 0.5 3.4 0.5 Total revenues $ 1,460.1 $ 1,594.2 $ 1,702.6 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations: Deepwater $ 344.8 $ 348.3 $ 454.7 Midwater 66.5 129.0 163.6 Independent Leg Jackups (25.1 ) 105.4 133.2 Other 3.8 4.8 7.8 Corporate (114.8 ) (174.2 ) (132.2 ) Total $ 275.2 $ 413.3 $ 627.1 The following table summarizes our average daily revenues and utilization percentage by segment: 2010 2009 2008 Average Average Average Daily Utilization Daily Utilization Daily Utilization Revenues (1) (2) Revenues (1) (2) Revenues (1) (2) Deepwater $ 327,300 93 % $ 335,100 84 % $ 310,100 97 % Midwater $ 261,000 64 % $ 258,700 74 % $ 249,400 78 % Independent Leg Jackups $ 101,400 35 % $ 123,000 84 % $ 121,100 89 % (1) Average daily revenues are based on total revenues for each type of rig divided by actual days worked by all rigs of that type. Average daily revenues will differ from average contract dayrate due to billing adjustments for any non productive time, mobilization fees, demobilization fees, performance bonuses and charges to the customer for ancillary services. (2) Utilization is calculated as the total days worked divided by the total days in the period. 41 Table of Contents Deepwater 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues for our Deepwater segment increased $107.4 million, or 13%, for 2010 over 2009. The increase in revenues is primarily due to the Deep Ocean Ascension, which was placed on a special standby dayrate of $360,000 beginning in August 2010, the Pride North America, which operated at a higher dayrate in 2010, the Pride Brazil, which had higher utilization in 2010 due to time in the shipyard for contractual upgrades in the second quarter of 2009, the Pride Portland, which operated at a significantly higher dayrate for the majority of 2010 as compared to 2009, and the Pride Africa, which had higher utilization. These factors contributed to an increase in revenues of $132.5 million over 2009. However, results for 2010 were negatively affected by an on going dispute with a client relating to the responsibility for payment of the time required for equipment inspection and maintenance at the specific request of the client on an unscheduled basis. As a result, we did not recognize an estimated $30 million of revenues relating to approximately 60 contracted rig days on the Pride North America due to the dispute pending resolution of the matter. The increase in revenues in 2010 was also partially offset by the Pride South Pacific, which, after completion of its upgrade, commenced a new contract mid January 2010 at a substantially lower dayrate, and the Pride Angola, which experienced a decrease in days worked of 20 days in 2010 over 2009. Together, these factors resulted in a $25.8 million decrease in revenues in 2010 over 2009. Average daily revenues decreased 2% for 2010 over 2009 primarily due to the decreased dayrate for the Pride South Pacific and the impact of the disputed revenue for the Pride North America, partially offset by the commencement of the special standby dayrate of the Deep Ocean Ascension. Earnings from operations decreased $3.5 million, or 1%, for 2010 over 2009 due to the decline in earnings from the Pride South Pacific, start up costs related to the Deep Ocean Ascension, the Deep Ocean Clarion and the Deep Ocean Mendocino, and an increase in labor costs for the offshore workforce. Utilization increased to 93% for 2010 as compared to 84% for 2009 primarily due to decreased out of service time experienced by the Pride South Pacific, Pride North America and Pride Portland, partially offset by the increased out of service time for the Pride Carlos Walter, which underwent a water depth upgrade and regulatory inspection in the first half of 2010, and the Pride Angola. 2009 Compared with 2008 Revenues for our Deepwater segment decreased $59.1 million, or 7%, for 2009 over 2008. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to decreased utilization of the Pride North America, which experienced approximately 136 out of service days as a result of a scheduled five year regulatory inspection and client requested upgrades in 2009. Also, the Pride South Pacific, which was mobilized to Cape Town for a regulatory inspection, experienced 124 out of service days during 2009. In addition, the Pride Rio de Janeiro worked at a higher dayrate in 2008 than in 2009. This decrease in revenues was partially offset by increased dayrates for the Pride Angola, Pride Brazil and Pride Carlos Walter, which collectively contributed approximately $68 million in incremental revenues in 2009 than in 2008. As a result of the higher dayrates described above, average daily revenues increased 8% for 2009 over 2008. Earnings from operations for the segment decreased $106.4 million, or 23%, for 2009 over 2008 primarily due to the decline in revenues and an increase in repair and maintenance costs, primarily for the Pride North America, Pride Africa and Pride Portland. The decrease was also due to an increase in total labor costs for offshore rig crews, primarily for the Pride Angola and Pride Africa. Utilization decreased to 84% for 2009 as compared to 97% for 2008 due to higher out of service time related to shipyard projects during 2009. Midwater 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues for our Midwater segment decreased $51.9 million, or 12%, for 2010 over 2009. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to the Pride South Seas, which was idle for all of 2010, and the Pride Venezuela, which operated at a substantially lower dayrate in 2010, in addition to being in the shipyard for a rig refurbishment project in the first quarter of 2010 that was completed in the third quarter of 2010. These factors contributed to a decrease in revenues of $86.8 million over the comparable period in 2009. This decrease in revenues was partially offset by the Sea Explorer, which operated at a substantially higher dayrate in 2010 over 2009 and contributed an incremental $35.6 million in 2010 over 2009. Earnings from operations decreased $62.5 million, or 48%, for 2010 over 2009 primarily due to decreased revenues, which was largely attributable to the Pride South Seas, and increased labor costs, partially offset by incremental earnings associated with the higher dayrate and utilization of the Sea Explorer. Utilization decreased to 64% for 2010 from 74% for 2009 primarily due to the decreased utilization of the Pride South Seas, the Pride South America, and the Pride South Atlantic partially offset by the increased utilization of the Sea Explorer. 42 Table of Contents 2009 Compared with 2008 Revenues for our Midwater segment decreased $6.1 million, or 1%, for 2009 over 2008. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to lower utilization of the Pride Venezuela, which experienced approximately 176 out of service days in 2009 following the agreement with the customer to terminate its current contract and the subsequent mobilization of the rig to the shipyard for repairs. This decrease is also due to the Pride South Seas, which completed its contract in August 2009 and was idle the remainder of the year. This decrease in revenues was largely offset by higher utilization in 2009 of the Pride Mexico, which started operations in July 2008 after the completion of its shipyard project. In addition, there was lower mechanical downtime on the Pride South Atlantic and higher revenues for the Sea Explorer, which commenced a new contract in November 2009 at a substantially higher dayrate. Earnings from operations decreased $34.6 million, or 21%, for 2009 over 2008 due to increased costs related to higher activity for the Pride Mexico, higher rental and transportation costs on the Pride Venezuela, higher depreciation expense from the Pride Mexico and Pride South Seas as a result of their 2008 shipyard projects, and a decline in revenues. Utilization decreased to 74% for 2009 from 78% for 2008 primarily due to the decreased utilization of the Pride Venezuela and Pride South Seas offset partially by increased utilization for the Pride Mexico and Pride South Atlantic. Independent Leg Jackup 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues for our Independent Leg Jackup segment decreased $174.6 million, or 66%, for 2010 over 2009. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to the decreased utilization of our fleet resulting from a recent decline in the demand for shallow water rigs. The Pride Pennsylvania and the Pride Wisconsin remained stacked throughout 2010, and the Pride Tennessee was idle for the first quarter of 2010 and was then stacked for the remainder of the year. Additionally, the Pride Hawaii was idle for the majority of the second quarter of 2010 and the remainder of 2010, the Pride Cabinda experienced approximately 143 out of service days throughout 2010 while awaiting the commencement of new contracts, and the Pride Montana commenced a shipyard project in the first quarter of 2010 that was completed in the second quarter and resulted in 44 out of service days. These factors contributed to the decrease in revenues in 2010 compared to 2009, during which all of our rigs were substantially utilized. Average daily revenues decreased 18% for 2010 over 2009 primarily due to the Pride Cabinda, which operated at a significantly lower dayrate in 2010 over 2009. Earnings from operations decreased $130.5 million to a loss of $25.1 million for 2010 compared with earnings of $105.4 million for 2009 due to decreased revenues, primarily due to rigs that remained stacked or idle. Utilization decreased to 35% for 2010 from 84% for 2009, also primarily due to the rigs that remained stacked or idle during 2010. 2009 Compared with 2008 Revenues for our Independent Leg Jackup segment decreased $9.9 million, or 4%, for 2009 over 2008. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to the decreased dayrate and lower utilization of the Pride Tennessee, which was stacked in the third quarter of 2009, and lower utilization for the Pride Wisconsin, which was stacked in September 2009. In addition, the Pride Pennsylvania was stacked in the fourth quarter of 2009. The decrease in revenues was partially offset by a full quarter of higher dayrate on the Pride Montana and higher utilization of the Pride Cabinda following completion of a 192 day shipyard project in 2008. Together, these five rigs contributed to a reduction of $8.8 million in revenue for 2009 over 2008. Average daily revenues increased 2% for 2009 over 2008 due to higher utilization and dayrates for the Pride Cabinda and the Pride Montana. Earnings from operations decreased $27.8 million, or 21%, for 2009 over 2008 due to increased costs for our rig crews offset partially by increased revenues. Utilization decreased to 84% for 2009 from 89% for 2008, primarily due to decreased utilization of the Pride Tennessee and the Pride Wisconsin, which was cold stacked during the third quarter of 2009, partially offset by reduced shipyard time for the Pride Cabinda and Pride North Dakota. 43 Table of Contents Other Operations Other operations include our deepwater drilling operations management contracts and other operating activities. Management contracts in 2010 include two contracts which currently expire in 2012 and 2015 (with early termination permitted in certain cases). Management contracts in 2009 also included one management contract that ended in the third quarter of 2009 and one management contract that ended in the fourth quarter of 2009. Management contracts in 2008 included two contracts that ended in the third and fourth quarters of 2008. 2010 Compared with 2009 Revenues decreased $12.1 million, or 15%, for 2010 over 2009 primarily due to the completion of two management contracts, in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, partially offset by increased revenue resulting from the commencement of a new management contract in April 2010 at a significantly higher dayrate. Earnings from operations decreased $1.0 million, or 21%, for 2010 over 2009 primarily due to the factors mentioned above. 2009 Compared with 2008 Revenues decreased $36.2 million, or 30%, for 2009 over 2008 primarily due to the termination of two management contracts in the second half of 2008 and a reduction in reimbursable revenue period over period in connection with a labor contract. Earnings from operations decreased $3.0 million, or 38%, for 2009 over 2008 primarily due to the decrease in reimbursable revenues. 44 Table of Contents Results of Operations The discussion below relating to significant line items represents our analysis of significant changes or events that impact the comparability of reported amounts. Where appropriate, we have identified specific events and changes that affect comparability or trends and, where possible and practical, have quantified the impact of such items. The following table presents selected consolidated financial information for our continuing operations: For the Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) REVENUES Revenues, excluding reimbursable revenues $ 1,431.5 $ 1,563.5 $ 1,664.7 Reimbursable revenues 28.6 30.7 37.9 1,460.1 1,594.2 1,702.6 COSTS AND EXPENSES Operating costs, excluding depreciation and amortization 871.9 828.3 766.5 Reimbursable costs 24.9 27.3 34.9 Depreciation and amortization 184.0 159.0 147.3 General and administrative, excluding depreciation and amortization 103.9 110.5 126.7 Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission fines 56.2 Loss (gain) on sales of assets, net 0.2 (0.4 ) 0.1 1,184.9 1,180.9 1,075.5 EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS 275.2 413.3 627.1 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized (13.4 ) (0.1 ) (20.0 ) Refinancing charges (16.7 ) (2.3 ) Interest income 2.9 3.0 16.8 Other income (expense), net 4.0 (4.1 ) 20.6 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES 252.0 412.1 642.2 INCOME TAXES (8.6 ) (71.8 ) (133.5 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX $ 243.4 $ 340.3 $ 508.7 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Revenues, Excluding Reimbursable Revenues. Revenues, excluding reimbursable revenues for 2010 decreased $132.0 million, or 8%, compared with 2009. For additional information about our revenues, please read Segment Review above. Reimbursable Revenues. Reimbursable revenues for 2010 decreased $2.1 million, or 7%, compared with 2009, primarily due to lower activity in our Midwater segment. Operating Costs. Operating costs for 2010 increased $43.6 million, or 5%, compared with 2009. The increase is largely attributable to $52.0 million of increased startup and operating costs resulting from the Deep Ocean Ascension, which went on a special standby dayrate in August 2010, the Deep Ocean Clarion and Deep Ocean Mendocino. Additionally, within our Deepwater segment, excluding our newbuild drillships, we experienced an increase of $34.6 million in labor and materials and supplies costs. Partially offsetting these increases were reductions in operating costs totaling $45.8 million which resulted from lower activity in our Independent Leg Jackup segment. Reimbursable Costs. Reimbursable costs for 2010 decreased $2.4 million, or 9%, compared with 2009 primarily due to lower activity within our Midwater and Independent Leg Jackup segments. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense for 2010 increased $25.0 million, or 16%, compared with 2009. This increase relates to capital additions primarily in our Deepwater and Midwater segments, including the commencement of depreciation on the Deep Ocean Ascension in August 2010. 45 Table of Contents General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses for 2010 decreased $6.6 million, or 6%, compared with 2009, primarily due to $5.7 million of lower labor costs and $1.3 million of lower expenses related to the investigation described under FCPA Investigation. Loss (Gain) on Sale of Assets, Net. We had net loss on sales of assets of $0.2 million for 2010 and a net gain of $0.4 million for 2009, primarily due to the sale of scrap equipment. Interest Expense. Interest expense for 2010 increased $13.3 million compared with 2009, primarily due to the incremental interest associated with the issuance of additional long term debt in 2009 and 2010, which was partially offset by the capitalization of interest, which totaled $102.5 million and $74.8 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Refinancing Charges. Refinancing charges for 2010 were $16.7 million and primarily included a $12.3 million make whole premium and $4.1 million write off of unamortized debt discount and unamortized debt issuance costs upon redemption of our 7 3/8% Senior Notes due 2014 in September 2010. There were no refinancing charges for 2009. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net for 2010 increased $8.1 million to $4.0 million of income for 2010 from an expense of $4.1 million for 2009 primarily due to a $9.4 million favorable change in our foreign exchange gain (loss). Income Taxes. Our consolidated effective income tax rate for continuing operations for 2010 was 3.4% compared with 17.4% for 2009. The lower tax rate for 2010 was principally the result of tax benefits related to the adjustment of intercompany pricing in the completion of our 2009 income tax return during the third quarter of 2010, lower income from continuing operations in 2010, and an increased proportion of income in lower tax jurisdictions in 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Revenues, Excluding Reimbursable Revenues. Revenues, excluding reimbursable revenues for 2009 decreased $101.2 million, or 6%, compared with 2008. For additional information about our revenues, please read Segment Review above. Reimbursable Revenues. Reimbursable revenues for 2009 decreased $7.2 million, or 19%, compared with 2008 primarily due to lower activity in our Other operations. Operating Costs. Operating costs for 2009 increased $61.8 million, or 8%, compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to approximately $26.1 million in higher labor costs for rig crew personnel, including costs for merit increases, retention programs designed to retain key operations personnel and increased training costs. In addition, there was an increase in repair and maintenance costs of approximately $17.0 million for rigs in our deepwater and midwater fleets, a $9.6 million increase attributable to pre launch start up costs incurred for the Deep Ocean Ascension and Deep Ocean Clarion, which were completed in 2010, a $6.2 million increase associated with employee termination costs in 2009 and a $5.7 million increase in transportation costs. The increase was partially offset by reduced expenses resulting from the termination of two management contracts in the second half of 2008. Operating costs as a percentage of revenues, excluding reimbursables, were 52% and 45% for 2009 compared with 2008. Reimbursable Costs. Reimbursable costs for 2009 decreased $7.6 million, or 22%, over 2008 primarily due to lower activity in our Other operations. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense for 2009 increased $11.7 million, or 8%, compared with 2008. This increase relates to capital additions primarily in our Midwater and Deepwater segments. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses for 2009 decreased $16.2 million, or 13%, compared with 2008. The decrease was due to a $7.0 million reduction related to costs incurred in the 2008 period for upgrades to our information technology infrastructure, a reduction of $5.7 million in expenses related to the ongoing investigation described under FCPA Investigation above, and a reduction of $2.8 million in connection with various cost control initiatives. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in termination costs due to reductions in headcount. 46 Table of Contents Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission Fines. We have accrued $56.2 million in anticipation of a possible resolution with the DOJ and the SEC of potential liabilities under the FCPA. Loss (Gain) on Sale of Assets, Net. We had net gain on sale of assets of $0.4 million for 2009 and a net loss on sale of assets of $0.1 million for 2008, primarily related to the sale of scrap equipment. Interest Expense. Interest expense for 2009 decreased $19.9 million, or 100%, compared with 2008 due to a $33.5 million increase in capitalized interest in 2009 and debt reductions in 2008. This decrease was partially offset by a net increase of $14.4 million as a result of the incremental interest expense associated with the issuance of our 8 1/2% Senior Notes in June 2009. Interest Income. Interest income for 2009 decreased $13.8 million, or 82%, compared with 2008 due to the decrease in investment income earned as a result of significantly lower investment yields year over year. The decrease was also the result of maintaining lower average cash balances due to the payments made for newbuild drillship construction projects, as compared to 2008. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net for 2009 decreased $24.7 million, or 120%, compared with 2008 primarily due to an $11.4 million gain recorded in the first quarter of 2008 resulting from the sale of our 30% minority interest in a joint venture that operated several land rigs in Oman. In addition, we had a $10.2 million foreign exchange gain for 2008 as compared to a $5.5 million foreign exchange loss for 2009. Income Taxes. Our consolidated effective income tax rate for continuing operations for 2009 was 17.4% compared with 20.8% for 2008. The lower tax rate for 2009 was principally the result of an increased proportion of income earned in lower taxed jurisdictions, tax benefits recognized from the resolution of uncertain tax positions, and tax benefits related to the finalization of certain tax returns, partially offset by non deductible fines and penalties. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our objective in financing our business is to maintain both adequate financial resources and access to additional liquidity. Our $750 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility provides back up liquidity to meet our on going working capital needs. Total long term debt, including the current portion, at December 31, 2010 was $1.9 billion, and stockholders equity was $4.5 billion, resulting in a debt to total capital ratio of 29%. During 2010, we used cash on hand, cash flows generated from operations, and net proceeds from our August 2010 $1.2 billion senior notes offering as our primary source of liquidity for funding our working capital needs, debt repayment and capital expenditures. We believe that our cash on hand, including the remaining net proceeds from the August 2010 notes offering, cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility will provide sufficient liquidity through 2011 to fund our working capital needs and scheduled debt repayments. We expect to fund our remaining commitments under our drillship construction program using some combination of cash on hand, cash flow from operations and, if needed, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. In addition, we will continue to pursue opportunities to expand or upgrade our fleet, which could result in additional capital investment. We may also in the future elect to return capital to our stockholders by share repurchases or the payment of dividends. We may review from time to time possible expansion and acquisition opportunities relating to our business, which may include the construction or acquisition of rigs or acquisitions of other businesses in addition to those described in this annual report. Any determination to construct or acquire additional rigs for our fleet will be based on market conditions and opportunities existing at the time, including the availability of long term contracts with attractive dayrates and the relative costs of building or acquiring new rigs with advanced capabilities compared with the costs of retrofitting or converting existing rigs to provide similar capabilities. The timing, size or success of any additional acquisition or construction effort and the associated potential capital commitments are unpredictable. We may seek to fund all or part of any such efforts with proceeds from debt and or equity issuances. Debt or equity financing may not, however, be available to us at that time due to a variety of events, including, among others, credit rating agency downgrades of our debt, industry conditions, general economic conditions, market conditions and market perceptions of us and our industry. In addition, we also review from time to time the possible disposition of assets that we do not consider core to our strategic long term business plan. 47 Table of Contents In December 2010, we reached a settlement with the DOJ and the SEC in connection with our liability under the FCPA. As part of the settlement, we made a cash payment in December 2010 totaling $56.2 million. For additional information regarding the settlement and our FCPA investigation, please read FCPA Investigation. Sources and Uses of Cash 2010 Compared with 2009 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from operating activities were $322.2 million for 2010 compared with $627.1 million for 2009. The decrease of $304.9 million was primarily due to a reduction of income from continuing operations and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash flows used in investing activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,251.9 million for 2010 compared with $1,059.8 million for 2009, an increase of $192.1 million. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in expenditures incurred towards the construction of our ultra deepwater drillships. Cash flows from financing activities Cash flows from financing activities were $651.6 million for 2010 compared with $483.3 million for 2009, an increase of $168.3 million. The increase in cash flows from financing activities was primarily due to the issuance in August 2010 of our 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2020 and our 7 7/8% Notes due 2040, which resulted in net proceeds of $1.2 billion. We also redeemed our 7 3/8% Notes due 2014 at a price of 102.458% of the $500.0 million principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, which resulted in total cash paid of $517.4 million. In June 2009, we issued our 8 1/2% Senior Notes due 2019, which resulted in net proceeds of $492.4 million. Cash used for scheduled debt repayments totaled $30.3 million for 2010 and 2009. We also received proceeds of $8.7 million and $20.1 million from employee stock transactions in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sources and Uses of Cash 2009 Compared with 2008 Cash flows provided by operating activities Cash flows from operations were $627.1 million for 2009 compared with $844.1 million for 2008. The decrease of $217.0 million in cash flows from operations was primarily due to the reduction in cash flow from our discontinued operations. The decline was also due to decreased income from continuing operations, which was primarily the result of lower fleet utilization and higher operating costs, offset partially by a decrease in our trade receivables. Cash flows used in investing activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,059.8 million for 2009 compared with $582.5 million for 2008, an increase of $477.3 million. The increase is primarily attributable to cash proceeds of $376.5 million received on the sale of assets in 2008 compared with $17.0 million in 2009, and a reduction in cash of $82.4 million resulting from the spin off of Seahawk in 2009. Purchases of property and equipment totaled $994.4 million and $984.0 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. We spent approximately $723.0 million and $637.0 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, on progress payments, equipment purchases and other capitalized costs in connection with our four deepwater drillship construction projects. Proceeds from dispositions of property and equipment were $7.4 million for 2009 compared with $65.8 million for 2008. Included in the proceeds for 2008 was $64.2 million related to the sale of our platform rig fleet. 48 Table of Contents Cash flows provided by financing activities Cash flows provided by financing activities were $483.3 million for 2009 compared with cash flows used in financing activities of $439.5 million for the comparable period in 2008, an increase of $922.8 million. The 2009 period included net proceeds of $492.4 million from the June 2009 notes offering, offset partially by $30.3 million of scheduled debt repayments. In 2008, our net cash used for debt repayments included $300 million to retire all of the outstanding 31/4% Convertible Senior Notes due 2033, $138.9 million to repay in full the outstanding amounts under our drillship loan facility and $30.3 million in scheduled debt repayments. We also received proceeds of $20.1 million and of $24.7 million from employee stock transactions for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Working Capital As of December 31, 2010, we had working capital of $463.1 million compared with $661.8 million as of December 31, 2009. The decrease in working capital is primarily due to expenditures of approximately $925 million incurred towards the construction of our ultra deepwater drillships, partially offset by the net proceeds from the issuance of our 6 7/8% Senior Notes and our 7 7/8% Senior Notes and the redemption of our 7 3/8% Senior Notes in the third quarter of 2010. Revolving Credit Facility On July 30, 2010, we entered into an amended and restated unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that increased availability under the facility from $320 million to $720 million and extended the maturity from December 2011 to July 2013. On October 28, 2010, pursuant to the credit facilitys accordion feature, we increased the availability under the facility to $750 million. Amounts drawn under the credit facility are available in U.S. dollars or euros and bear interest at variable rates based on either LIBOR plus a margin that varies based on our credit rating or the alternative base rate as defined in the agreement. The credit facility contains a number of covenants restricting, among other things, liens; indebtedness of our subsidiaries; mergers and dispositions of all or substantially all of our or certain of our subsidiaries assets; hedging arrangements outside the ordinary course of business; and sale leaseback transactions. The facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. The facility contains customary events of default, including with respect to a change of control. Borrowings under the credit facility are available to make investments, acquisitions and capital expenditures, to repay and back up commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. We may obtain up to $100 million of letters of credit under the facility. As of December 31, 2010, there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under the facility. Other Outstanding Debt As of December 31, 2010, in addition to our credit facility, we had the following long term debt, including current maturities, outstanding: $500 million principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Notes due 2019; $900 million principal amount of 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2020; $300 million principal amount of 7 7/8% Senior Notes due 2040; and $167 million principal amount of notes guaranteed by the United States Maritime Administration. On August 6, 2010, we completed an offering of $900 million aggregate principal amount of our 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2020 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of our 7 7/8% Senior Notes due 2040. The 2020 notes and the 2040 notes bear interest at 6.875% and 7.875%, respectively, per annum, payable semiannually. The notes contain provisions that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions, to engage in sale and leaseback transactions, create liens and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. Upon a specified change in control event that results in a ratings decline, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes at a repurchase price of 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest through the applicable repurchase date. The notes of each series are subject to redemption, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at our option, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes redeemed plus a make whole premium. We will also pay accrued but unpaid interest to the redemption date. 49 Table of Contents On September 5, 2010, we redeemed all of our outstanding 7 3/8% Senior Notes due 2014 with a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2020 notes and 2040 notes. The aggregate principal amount of the 2014 notes of $500 million was redeemed at a price of 102.458% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. We have used and expect to use the remaining proceeds from the offering of the 2020 notes and the 2040 notes, net of issuance costs, for general corporate purposes, which have included and may include payments with respect to our drillships under construction and other capital expenditures. Our 8 1/2% Senior Notes due 2019 also contain provisions that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions, to engage in sale and leaseback transactions, create liens and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. Our notes guaranteed by the United States Maritime Administration were used to finance a portion of the cost of construction of the Pride Portland and Pride Rio de Janeiro. The notes bear interest at a weighted average fixed rate of 4.33% with semi annual principal payments until maturity in 2016 and are prepayable, in whole or in part, subject to a make whole premium. The notes are collateralized by the two rigs and the net proceeds received by subsidiary project companies chartering the rigs. In April 2008, we called for redemption all of the outstanding 3 1/4% Convertible Senior Notes due 2033 in accordance with the terms of the indenture governing the notes. The redemption price was 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including contingent interest) to the redemption date. Holders of the notes could elect to convert the notes into our common stock at a rate of 38.9045 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, at any time prior to the redemption date. Holders of the notes elected to convert a total of $299.7 million aggregate principal amount of the notes, and the remaining $254,000 aggregate principal amount was redeemed by us on the redemption date. We delivered an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million in cash and approximately 5.0 million shares of common stock in connection with the retirement of the notes. Although we do not expect that our level of total indebtedness will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity in future periods, it may limit our flexibility in certain areas. Please read Risk Factors Our significant debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities in Item 1A of this annual report. Other Sources and Uses of Cash We expect our purchases of property and equipment for 2011, excluding our commitments related to our drillship construction projects, to be approximately $265 million. These purchases have been and are expected to be used primarily for various rig upgrades in connection with new contracts as contracts expire during the year, the re activation of rigs which were previously taken out of service, along with other sustaining capital projects. With respect to our drillship construction projects, which are scheduled to be completed in 2011 and 2013, the total remaining costs are estimated to be approximately $1.3 billion, which includes final payments totaling approximately $275 million on the recently delivered Deep Ocean Mendocino. These costs exclude rig mobilization costs, capital spares and other start up costs. We expect to fund our remaining commitments under our newbuild program using some combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds from our notes offering in August 2010, cash flow from operations, and, if needed, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We anticipate making income tax payments of approximately $47 million to $52 million in 2011. Mobilization fees received from customers and the costs incurred to mobilize a rig from one geographic area to another, as well as up front fees to modify a rig to meet a customers specifications, are deferred and amortized over the term of the related drilling contracts. These up front fees and costs impact liquidity in the period in which the fees are received or the costs incurred, whereas they will impact our statement of operations in the periods during which the deferred revenues and costs are amortized. The amount of up front fees received and the related costs vary from period to period depending upon the nature of new contracts entered into and market conditions then prevailing. Generally, contracts for drilling services in remote locations or contracts that require specialized equipment will provide for higher up front fees than contracts for readily available equipment in major markets. 50 Table of Contents We may redeploy additional assets to more active regions if we have the opportunity to do so on attractive terms. We frequently bid for or negotiate with customers regarding multi year contracts that could require significant capital expenditures and mobilization costs. We expect to fund project opportunities primarily through a combination of working capital, cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we initiated a plan to open a regional headquarter for the Eastern hemisphere in the Netherlands and a project to consolidate our offices in France, in order to reduce costs and improve operating efficiencies. The restructuring effort contemplates closing down one office and reducing the overall workforce in France. We expect the restructuring to be completed in the third quarter of 2011 and the associated costs to be paid using cash from operations. The costs to be incurred for the restructuring will be primarily related to payments to be made under ongoing and one time termination benefit arrangements; however, the terms are subject to negotiations with, and the formal opinion of, a local labor committee. In addition to the matters described in this Liquidity and Capital Resources section, please read FCPA Investigation, Our Business and Segment Review for additional matters that may have a material impact on our liquidity. Letters of Credit We are contingently liable as of December 31, 2010 in the aggregate amount of $544.8 million under certain performance, bid and custom bonds and letters of credit. As of December 31, 2010, we had not been required to make any collateral deposits with respect to these agreements. Contractual Obligations In the table below, we set forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010. Some of the figures we include in this table are based on our estimates and assumptions about these obligations, including their duration and other factors. The contractual obligations we will actually pay in future periods may vary from those reflected in the table because the estimates and assumptions are subjective. Less Than After Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years (In millions) Recorded contractual obligations: Principal payments on long term debt(1) $ 1,863.7 $ 30.3 $ 60.6 $ 60.6 $ 1,712.2 Other long term liabilities(2) 0.5 0.5 $ 1,864.2 $ 30.8 $ 60.6 $ 60.6 $ 1,712.2 Unrecorded contractual obligations: Interest payments on long term debt(3) 1,712.6 137.0 265.9 260.6 1,049.1 Operating lease obligations(4) 41.9 9.7 13.2 8.8 10.2 Purchase obligations(5) 167.8 159.4 8.4 Drillship construction agreements(6) 1,151.4 657.2 494.2 $ 3,073.7 $ 963.3 $ 781.7 $ 269.4 $ 1,059.3 Total $ 4,937.9 $ 994.1 $ 842.3 $ 330.0 $ 2,771.5 (1) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for our total long term debt and do not reflect any unamortized discount. (2) Amounts represent other liabilities related to severance and termination benefits. (3) Amounts represent the expected cash payments for interest on our long term debt based on the interest rates in place and amounts outstanding at December 31, 2010. 51 Table of Contents (4) We enter into operating leases in the normal course of business. Some lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the leases. Our future operating lease payments would change if we exercised these renewal options and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. (5) Includes approximately $73.5 million in purchase obligations related to drillship construction projects. (6) Includes shipyard payments under drillship construction agreements for our drillship construction projects. As of December 31, 2010, we have approximately $40.8 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including penalties and interest. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with the liabilities recognized in this balance, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2010 06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (ASU 2010 6). The update amends FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, (ASC Topic 820) to require additional disclosures related to transfers between levels in the hierarchy of fair value measurements. ASU 2010 6 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. We adopted ASU 2010 6 as of January 1, 2010. Because the update did not change how fair values are measured, the update did not have an effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In April 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010 12, Accounting for Certain Tax Effects of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. This update codifies an SEC Staff Announcement relating to accounting for the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. We adopted ASU 2010 12 as of its effective date, April 14, 2010. The effect of the new health care laws on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows is immaterial. In May 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010 19, Foreign Currency Issues: Multiple Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. The purpose of this update is to codify the SEC Staff Announcement made at the March 18, 2010 meeting of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) by the SEC Observer to the EITF. The Staff Announcement provides the SEC staffs view on certain foreign currency issues related to investments in Venezuela. ASU 2010 19 is effective as of March 18, 2010. We adopted the update as of its effective date. The update had no effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In August 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010 21, Accounting for Technical Amendments to Various SEC Rules and Schedules Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to Release No. 33 9026: Technical Amendments to Rules, Forms, Schedules and Codification of Financial Reporting Policies. This ASU amends various SEC paragraphs in the ASC to reflect changes made by the SEC in Final Rulemaking Release No. 33 9026, which was issued in April 2009 and amended SEC requirements in Regulation S X and Regulation S K and made changes to financial reporting requirements in response to the FASBs issuance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141(R), Business Combinations (FASB ASC Topic 805), and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (FASB ASC Topic 810). ASU 2010 21 is effective upon issuance. We adopted this update on its effective date. The update had no effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We previously adopted the guidance originally issued in SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 on January 1, 2009. In August 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010 22, Accounting for Various Topics Technical Corrections to SEC Paragraphs. This update amends some of the SEC material in the ASC based on the June 2009 publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 112, which amended Topic 2, Topic 5, and Topic 6 in the SECs Staff Accounting Bulletin series. SAB 112 was issued to bring the SECs staff interpretative guidance into alignment with the changes in U.S. GAAP made in SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (FASB ASC Topic 805), and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (FASB ASC Topic 810). ASU 2010 22 is effective upon issuance. We adopted this update on its effective date. The update had no effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 52 Table of Contents In December 2010, the FASB has issued ASU 2010 29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, requires a public entity involved in a merger or acquisition to disclose pro forma information of the combined entity for business combinations that occur in the current reporting period. This update clarifies the acquisition date that should be used for reporting the pro forma financial information disclosures in ASC Topic 805 when comparative financial statements are presented. The update requires the pro forma information for business combinations to be presented as if the business combination occurred at the beginning of the prior annual reporting period when calculating both the current reporting period and the prior reporting period pro forma financial information. The update also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination. The amended guidance is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. We adopted the update as of January 1, 2011. We do not expect the update to have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this annual report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward looking statements. These include such matters as: market conditions, expansion and other development trends in the contract drilling industry and the economy in general; the satisfaction of closing conditions to the merger agreement with Ensco plc and the completion of the proposed merger, as well as Enscos ability to obtain adequate financing to fund the merger consideration; the Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 and its consequences, including actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, other governments or our customers; our ability to enter into new contracts for our rigs, commencement dates for rigs and future utilization rates and contract rates for rigs; customer requirements for drilling capacity and customer drilling plans; contract backlog and the amounts expected to be realized within one year; future capital expenditures and investments in the construction, acquisition, refurbishment and repair of rigs (including the amount and nature thereof and the timing of completion and delivery thereof); future asset sales; adequacy of funds for capital expenditures, working capital and debt service requirements; future income tax payments and the utilization of net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards; business strategies; expansion and growth of operations; future exposure to currency devaluations or exchange rate fluctuations; expected or future insurance coverage and indemnification from our customers under our drilling contracts; expected outcomes of legal, tax and administrative proceedings and their expected effects on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows; future operating results and financial condition; and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. 53 Table of Contents We have based these statements on our assumptions and analyses in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. These statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including those described under FCPA Investigation above and in Risk Factors in Item 1A of this annual report and the following: general economic and business conditions; prices of crude oil and natural gas and industry expectations about future prices; ability to adequately staff our rigs; foreign exchange controls and currency fluctuations; political stability in the countries in which we operate; the business opportunities (or lack thereof) that may be presented to and pursued by us; cancellation or renegotiation of our drilling contracts or payment or other delays, including acceptance testing delays, or defaults by our customers; unplanned downtime and repairs on our rigs, particularly due to the age of some of the rigs in our fleet; changes in laws and regulations; and the validity of the assumptions used in the design of our disclosure controls and procedures. Most of these factors are beyond our control. We caution you that forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in these statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to certain market risks arising from the use of financial instruments in the ordinary course of business. These risks arise primarily as a result of potential changes in the fair market value of financial instruments that would result from adverse fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates as discussed below. We may enter into derivative financial instrument transactions to manage or reduce market risk, but do not enter into derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. Interest Rate Risk. We are exposed to changes in interest rates through our fixed rate long term debt. Typically, the fair market value of fixed rate long term debt will increase as prevailing interest rates decrease and will decrease as prevailing interest rates increase. The fair value of our long term debt is estimated based on quoted market prices where applicable, or based on the present value of expected cash flows relating to the debt discounted at rates currently available to us for long term borrowings with similar terms and maturities. The estimated fair value of our long term debt as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $2,030.2 million and $1,307.6 million, respectively, which was more than its carrying value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 of $1,863.7 and $1,192.0 million, respectively. A hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates relative to market interest rates at December 31, 2010 would increase the fair market value of our long term debt at December 31, 2010 by approximately $143.5 million. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. We operate in a number of international areas and are involved in transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We utilize the payment structure of customer contracts to selectively reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in connection with monetary assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in certain foreign currencies. We also utilize derivative instruments to hedge forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had contracts outstanding to exchange an aggregate $5.8 million and $6.0 million, respectively, U.S. dollars to hedge against the change in value of forecasted payroll transactions and related costs denominated in Euros. If we were to incur a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the net unrealized loss associated with our foreign currency denominated exchange contracts as of December 31, 2010 would be approximately $0.6 million. We do not hold or issue foreign currency forward contracts, option contracts or other derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 54 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
