<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: Warrior Energy Services CORP
CIK: 0000839871
SIC: 1389
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20051231
FILE DATE: 20060331
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Description of the Companys Indebtedness for a discussion of the Companys credit facilities. The Companys operations are subject to hazards inherent in the natural gas and oil industry. These risks may not be fully covered by the Companys insurance policies. Risks inherent to the Companys industry, such as equipment defects, vehicle accidents, fires, blowouts, explosions, uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, storms and hurricanes can cause personal injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, damage to formations, damage to facilities, business interruption and damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment. These risks could expose the Company not only to the loss of uninsured equipment, but also to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of natural gas and oil production, pollution and other environmental damages. The frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. The Company works in a potentially dangerous business. The Company monitors its operations for quality and safety. The Companys safety procedures may not always prevent damages. The Companys insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover its liabilities. In addition, the Company may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers reasonable and commercially justifiable, and insurance may not continue to be available on terms as favorable as its current arrangements. The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by the Company or a claim at a time when the Company is not able to obtain liability insurance, could have a material adverse effect on the Companys ability to conduct normal business operations and on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to extensive and costly environmental laws and regulations that may require it to take actions that will adversely affect its results of operations. The Companys business is significantly affected by stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. As part of the Companys business, it handles, transports, and disposes of a variety of fluids and substances used or produced by its customers in connection with their natural gas and oil exploration and production activities. The Company also generates and disposes of hazardous waste. The generation, handling, transportation, and disposal of these fluids, substances, and waste are regulated by a number of laws, including the Resource Recovery and Conservation Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and analogous state laws. Failure to properly handle, transport, or dispose of these materials or otherwise conduct the Companys operations in accordance with these and other environmental laws could expose it to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs associated with releases of such materials, damages to natural resources, and other damages, as well as potentially impair its ability to conduct its operations. The Company could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages under these and other environmental laws and other damages as a result of its conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Environmental laws and regulations have changed in the past, and they are likely to change in the future. If existing 17 Back to Contents regulatory requirements or enforcement policies change, the Company may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. Any failure by the Company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against its business that could adversely impact its operations and financial condition, including the: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of limitations on the Companys operations; and performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. The effect of environmental laws and regulations on the Companys business is discussed in greater detail under Item 1. Business Environmental Regulation. The Companys business could be adversely affected by technological advancements in the future. As new well service technologies develop, the Company may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressure may force it to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. The Company may not be able to successfully acquire or utilize new technologies. New technologies could render the Companys current services obsolete or significantly reduce demand for its current services. As a result, advancements in technology could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the Company fails to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. The Companys acquisition of Bobcat will present challenges in establishing internal controls and procedures that the combined company will be required to maintain. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its reputation and operating results could be harmed. The Companys efforts to continue to develop and maintain internal controls over financial reporting may not be successful, and it may be unable to maintain adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future, including compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. The Company will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. If the Company fails to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, it may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq. In addition, if any material weakness or deficiency is identified or is not remedied, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of the Companys reported financial information, and its stock price could be significantly adversely affected as a result. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in the Companys implementation or other effective improvement of its internal controls, could harm its operating results. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm the Companys business. Terrorist activities, antiterrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the U.S. or other countries may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent the Compay from meeting its financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for natural gas and oil, potentially putting downward pressure on 18 Back to Contents demand for the Companys services and causing a reduction in its revenues. Natural gas and oil related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and the Companys operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to its customers operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. The Companys operations are subject to seasonal variations in weather conditions. Since the Companys operations take place outdoors, the average number of hours worked per day, and therefore the number of wells serviced per day, generally is less in winter months than in summer months, due to an increase in snow, rain, fog, cold conditions and a decrease in daylight hours in the winter months. The Company is also at risk for hurricanes and tropical storms in the late summer and fall months. Furthermore, the Companys customers demand for its services in the first quarter is generally lower than at other times of the year. As a result, full year revenue and gross profits are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. Risks Related to the Companys Common Stock Because the Company has no current plans to pay dividends on its common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in the Company. The Company has not declared or paid any dividends on its common stock, and it does not currently anticipate paying any dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, the Company currently intends to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of its business. In addition, the Company is prohibited from paying dividends under its Credit Agreements. Any future determination relating to its dividend policy will be at the discretion of its board of directors and will depend on its results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant. There has been limited trading activity in the Companys common stock and a more active trading market may not develop. The Companys common stock has traded in limited volumes in the over the counter market and quotations have appeared in the Pink Sheets. The Company does not know if a more active trading market will develop for its common stock or how its common stock will trade in the future, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. The Companys certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. The Companys certificate of incorporation authorizes its board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If the Companys board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company. In addition, some provisions of the Companys certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if the change of control would be beneficial to its stockholders, including: the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, other than by unanimous written consent; the ability of the Companys board of directors to issue up to 2.5 million shares of preferred stock with voting and liquidation rights superior to common stock; and limitations on the ability of the Companys stockholders to call special meetings. 19 Back to Contents Delaware law prohibits the Company from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder, meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of the Companys common stock cannot acquire the Company for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by the Companys board of directors. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Companys common stock. Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. With the exception of historical matters, the matters discussed in this Report are forward looking statements as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company intends that the forward looking statements herein be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward looking statements contained in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and this statement is included for the purpose of complying with these safe harbor provisions. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the matters described under Item 1A. Risk Factors as risk factors, as well as under Item 1. Business Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. Such forward looking statements relate to the Companys ability to complete its proposed public offering and restructure its balance sheet, generate revenues and maintain profitability and cash flow, the stability and level of prices for natural gas and oil, predictions and expectations as to the fluctuations in the levels of natural gas and oil prices, pricing in the natural gas and oil services industry and the willingness of customers to commit for natural gas and oil well services, the Companys ability to raise additional debt or equity capital to meet its requirements and the Companys intended growth initiatives and to obtain additional financing to fund that growth when required, the Companys ability to maintain compliance with the covenants of its various loan documents and other agreements pursuant to which its securities, including debt instruments, have been issued and obtain waivers of violations that occur and consents to amendments as required, the Companys ability to compete in the premium natural gas and oil services market, the Companys ability to re deploy its equipment among regional operations as required, and the Companys ability to provide services using state of the art tooling and its ability to successfully integrate and operate the Bobcat operations. Important factors that may affect the Companys ability to meet these objectives or requirements include: adverse developments in general economic conditions; changes in capital markets; adverse developments in the natural gas and oil industry; developments in international relations; the commencement or expansion of hostilities by the United States or other governments; events of terrorism; and declines and fluctuations in the prices for natural gas and oil; Material declines in the prices for natural gas and oil can be expected to adversely affect the Companys revenues. The Company cautions readers that various risk factors described in this Annual Report could cause the Companys operating results and financial condition to differ materially from those 20 Back to Contents expressed in any forward looking statements it makes and could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and the Companys ability to pursue its business strategy and plans, including its ability to complete its proposed public offering. Risk factors that could affect the Companys revenues, profitability and future business operations, among others, are set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is not an accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b 2 of the Exchange Act, or a well known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and is not required to respond to this Item. The Company did not receive within 180 days before December 31, 2005 any written comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports which comments remain unresolved. Item 2. Properties The Company leases 5,000 square feet of office space in Columbus, Mississippi for a five year term expiring on December 31, 2006 for the Companys executive offices. The monthly rental is $5,000. The Company also leases approximately 4,000 square feet of corporate and sales office space in Houston, Texas. The monthly lease expense is approximately $5,500 and has a term of five years ending August 2011, with an option to cancel the lease after three years. The Company maintains district offices at 25 locations throughout the Companys service areas and manufacturing facilities in Laurel, Mississippi and Decatur, Texas. Of such facilities, three are owned by the Company and the others are leased with rental periods ranging from a month to month basis to five years. The aggregate annual rental for the leased facilities is approximately $786,000. Management believes that these facilities are adequate for the Companys current requirements. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In March, 2006, one of the Companys shareholders presented it with a demand for corrective action to remedy alleged breaches of fiduciary duty by William L. Jenkins, Charles E. Underbrink and James H. Harrison. The shareholder alleges that these directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with various transactions, including the exchange of the Companys warrants for shares of its common stock in October and November 2005, the extension of the expiration date of the Companys warrants in December 2004, the Companys failure to refinance certain of its derivative securities by the end of 2004, the amendment of the Companys certificate of incorporation in December 2005 and the triggering of the change of control payment due to Mr. Jenkins in December 2005. The shareholder further alleges that these directors were interested in such transactions, that such transactions were not fair to the Company and that the St. James Partnerships, Simmons & Company International, Ron E. Whitter and another officer of the company participated in such breaches and or aided and abetted them. The shareholder has indicated that if the Company fails to take appropriate action to remedy the breaches following the presentation of its demand, it intends to bring a derivative suit on behalf of the Company. The Companys board of directors intends to take such steps as it considers appropriate to investigate this matter. However, based on information received through March 29, 2006, the Company believes these allegations are without merit and, if a suit is filed, the Company expects that it will be vigorously defended. The Company does not expect the liability, if any, resulting from this matter to have a material adverse effect on its current financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Back to Contents The Company is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings which management considers to be ordinary routine litigation that is incidental to the Companys business. The Company does not expect to incur any material liability as a consequence of such litigation. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders By written consent effective on November 23, 2005, the holders of 1,174,920 shares of the Companys common stock, a majority of its common stock outstanding at the time, approved the adoption of amendments to the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The amendments (i) effected a share combination (a reverse stock split) whereby each ten (10) shares of previously authorized, issued and outstanding shares of the Companys common stock were combined into one (1) share of common stock, (ii) reduced the number of shares of common stock the Company is authorized to issue from 175,000,000 shares to 35,000,000 shares, (ii) granted to the Companys Board of Directors the authority to issue the 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock it is authorized to issue under its Certificate of Incorporation in one or more series, without further approval of stockholders and to establish the rights and terms of each series, (iv) provide that, except as otherwise required by law or provided by the terms of any series of its preferred stock, special meetings of its stockholders for any purpose may be called at any time only by a majority of its Board of Directors or the Chairman of its Board or its President, and (v) provide that, except as otherwise required by law or provided by the terms of any series of its preferred stock, stockholders may not take any action by written consent, unless such action is taken by unanimous written consent. 22 Back to Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information The Companys common stock is traded in the over the counter market and quotations appear in the Pink Sheets under the trading symbol WGSV (formerly BWWR). The following table sets forth the high and low bid prices for the Companys common stock in the over the counter market for the periods indicated as provided by the Pink Sheets. On December 27, 2005, the Company effected a one for ten reverse stock split of its common stock. All bid prices in the following table give effect to the reverse stock split. Bid Prices 2004 High Low First Quarter $ 3.90 $ 2.50 Second Quarter 4.00 1.00 Third Quarter 2.00 1.00 Fourth Quarter 2.00 1.00 Bid Prices 2005 High Low First Quarter $ 2.70 $ 1.50 Second Quarter 6.10 1.20 Third Quarter 9.00 4.50 Fourth Quarter 12.00 10.50 Bid Prices 2006 High Low First Quarter (through March 30, 2006) $ 19.00 $ 10.01 There has been very limited trading activity in the Companys common stock. By reason of this limited trading activity, the quoted prices for the Companys common stock have been subject to wide fluctuations on very limited trading activity in the common stock. The foregoing amounts represent inter dealer quotations without adjustment for retail markups, markdowns or commissions, and do not represent the prices of actual transactions. The last sales price for the Companys common stock on March 30, 2006, as reported by the Pink Sheets, was $19.00 per share. As of March 22, 2006, the Company had approximately 450 stockholders of record and the Company believes it had in excess of 500 beneficial holders of the Companys common stock. Proposed Public Offering and Application to List the Companys Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market On February 13, 2006, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement on Form S l under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for the sale of up to $185.2 million of shares of common stock by the Company and certain selling securityholders. The Company expects to use the proceeds it receives from its proposed public offering to simplify its capital structure by eliminating 23 Back to Contents outstanding derivative securities and to reduce debt. In connection with that offering, the Company filed an application to list its common stock on the Nasdaq National Market under the trading symbol WARR. Dividends The Company has never paid a cash dividend on its common stock and it has no present intention of commencing to pay dividends. The Company is prohibited from paying dividends under the terms of its Credit Agreements. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company sold the following securities not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended: Under Recapitalization Agreements the Company entered into on October 6, 2005, (1) Mr. Charles E. Underbrink and family members and affiliated entities (the Underbrink Family Entities) exchanged all of their 1,193,841 warrants for 397,947 shares of common stock (on the ratio of three warrants for one share of common stock), and they have agreed to convert the Subordinated Convertible Notes they hold into shares of common stock at the closing of a currently proposed public offering of shares of the Companys common stock and sell all their shares to the Company at the closing of the public offering at the net price per share the Company receives in the public offering, but not less than $7.50 per share; and (2) St. James Capital Partners, L.P. and SJMB, L.P., (the St. James Partnerships), private investment funds, agreed to sell to the Company at the closing of the public offering all of the warrants they hold at a price, for each three warrants, equal to the net price per share the Company receives in the offering, but not less than $7.50 per share. They also agreed to convert their Subordinated Convertible Notes into shares of the Companys common stock and sell to the Company at the closing of the public offering those shares, plus 501,748 shares of common stock held by SJMB, L.P., at the net price per share the Company receives in the offering, but not less than $7.50 per share. On October 7, 2005, the Company commenced a tender offer to holders of the Companys outstanding common stock purchase warrants to exchange their warrants for shares of the Companys common stock at the exchange rate of three warrants for one share of the Companys common stock. This offer remained open through November 14, 2005 and any acceptances were irrevocable. The offer was open to all holders of the Companys warrants and was not subject to any minimum acceptance. The holders tendered 1,510,000 warrants in exchange for 503,333 shares of the Companys common stock. All warrants tendered to the Company and accepted were retired. The transactions described above were exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act by virtue of Section 3(a)(9) thereof. Purchase of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Neither the Company nor any affiliated purchaser, as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3), repurchased any shares of the Companys Common Stock during the year ended December 31, 2005. 24 Back to Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Set forth below is certain financial information for each of the five years ended December 31, 2005 ,2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 taken from the Companys audited financial statements. Prior period income statement items have been restated for continued operations. Amounts are stated in thousands, except per share data. December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Revenues(1) $ 73,667 $ 53,687 $ 45,757 $ 34,094 $ 39,682 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 15,413 $ 4,630 $ 1,386 $ (4,173 ) $ 4,064 Net income (loss) per common share basic $ 5.75 $ (1.41 ) $ (4.43 ) $ (6.06 ) $ 4.03 Net income (loss) per common share diluted $ 4.41 $ (1.41 ) $ (4.43 ) $ (6.06 ) $ 4.03 Current assets $ 23,106 $ 15,665 $ 16,035 $ 16,117 $ 17,366 Total assets $ 101,634 $ 30,109 $ 41,401 $ 49,671 $ 50,481 Current liabilities $ 16,944 $ 8,789 $ 64,439 $ 20,176 $ 16,829 Total liabilities(2) $ 117,205 $ 55,318 $ 64,905 $ 67,720 $ 61,128 Cash dividends 0 0 0 0 0 (1) See Note 5 to Notes to Financial Statements for information regarding acquisitions made by the Company. (2) See Note 9 to Notes to Financial Statements for information relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness. 25 Back to Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Item 6. Selected Financial Data and the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Report. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys future plans, estimates, beliefs and expected performance. The forward looking statements are dependent upon events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside the Companys control. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, market prices for natural gas and oil, economic and competitive conditions, regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other uncertainties, as well as those factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, all of which are difficult to predict. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward looking events discussed may not occur. Overview The Company is a natural gas and oil well services company that provides cased hole wireline and well intervention services to E&P companies. The Companys wireline services focus on cased hole wireline operations, including logging services, perforating, mechanical services, pipe recovery and plugging and abandoning the well. The Companys well intervention services are primarily hydraulic workover services, commonly known as snubbing services. All of the Companys services are performed at the well site and are fundamental to establishing and maintaining the flow of natural gas and oil throughout the productive life of the well. The Companys results of operations are affected primarily by the extent of utilization and rates paid for its wireline and well intervention services, which is dependent upon the upstream spending by the natural gas and oil exploration and production companies that comprise its client base. The Company derives a majority of its revenues from services supporting production from existing natural gas and oil operations. Demand for these production related services is less volatile than drilling related services and tends to remain relatively stable, even in lower natural gas and oil price environments, as ongoing maintenance spending is required to sustain production. As natural gas and oil prices reach higher levels, demand for the Companys production related services generally increases as its customers engage in more well servicing activities relating to existing wells to maintain or increase natural gas and oil production from those wells. Because some of the Companys services are required to support drilling activities, the Company is subject to changes in capital spending by its customers as natural gas and oil prices increase or decrease. The Company showed improvement in its revenues during 2004 and 2005 over 2003 and 2002 as a result of the increased natural gas and oil drilling and workover activity during those years. As a result of the Bobcat acquisition, which represents the Companys introduction into the well intervention services business, the Company currently operates in two business segments: wireline services and well intervention services. The Companys wireline segment includes the business conducted by Warrior Energy prior to the Bobcat acquisition, and its well intervention segment includes the business conducted by Bobcat post acquisition. Revenues The majority of the Companys revenues are generated from major and large independent natural gas and oil companies. The primary factor influencing demand for the Companys services by those customers is their level of drilling and workover activity, which, in turn, depends primarily on the availability of drilling and workover prospects and current and anticipated future natural gas and oil commodity prices and production depletion rates. 26 Back to Contents The Companys services are generally provided at a price based on bids submitted which in turn are based on the Companys current pricing, equipment and crew availability and customer location and the nature of the service to be provided. These services are routinely provided to the Companys customers and are subject to the customers time schedule, weather conditions, availability of the Companys personnel and complexity of the operation. The Companys wireline services generally take one to three days to perform while its well intervention services generally take two weeks or longer to perform. Service revenues are recognized at the time services are performed. The Company generally charges for its wireline services on a per well entry basis and its well intervention services on a day rate basis. Depending on the specific service, a per well entry or day rate may include one or more of these components: (1) a set up charge, (2) an hourly service rate based on equipment and labor, (3) an equipment rental charge, (4) a consumables charge and (5) a mileage and fuel charge. The Company determines the rates charged through a competitive bid process on a job by job basis or, for larger customers, the Company may negotiate on an annual basis. Typically, work is performed on a call out basis, whereby the customer requests services on a job specific basis, but does not guarantee work levels beyond the specific job bid. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, approximately 49.9% and 57.9%, respectively, of the Companys revenues were derived from onshore activities and approximately 50.1% and 42.1%, respectively, of the Companys revenues were derived from offshore activities. Cost and Expenses Operating Costs. The Companys operating costs are comprised primarily of labor expenses, repair and maintenance, material and fuel and insurance. In a competitive labor market in the industry, it is possible that the Company will have to raise wage rates to attract workers and retain or expand its current work force. The Company believes it will be able to increase service rates to its customers to compensate for wage rate increases. The Company also incurs costs to employ personnel to sell and supervise its services and perform maintenance on its fleet. These costs are not directly tied to the Companys level of business activity. Because the Company seeks to retain its experienced and well qualified employees during cyclical downturns in its business, and is required to pay severance under employment agreements that cover a portion of its workforce, the Company expects labor expenses to increase as a percentage of revenues during future cyclical downturns. Repair and maintenance is performed by the Companys crews, company maintenance personnel and outside service providers. Increases in the Companys material and fuel costs are frequently passed on to its customers. However, due to the timing of the Companys marketing and bidding cycles, there is generally a delay of several weeks or months from the time that it incurs an actual price increase until the time that the Company can pass on that increase to its customers. Insurance is generally a fixed cost regardless of utilization and relates to the number of rigs, trucks, skids, snubbing units and other equipment in the Companys fleet, employee payroll and safety record. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. The Companys selling, general and administrative expenses include administrative, marketing, employee compensation and related benefits, office and lease expenses, insurance costs and professional fees, as well as other costs and expenses not directly related to field operations. The Companys management regularly evaluates the level of the Companys general and administrative expenses in relation to its revenue because these expenses have a direct impact on the Companys profitability. The Company expects to incur additional expense in future periods relating to incentive compensation paid to employees. Success Bonus and Change of Control Payments. The Company expects to make change of control and success bonus payments in the aggregate amount of $2.6 million to certain key employees immediately prior to or concurrently with the closing of the Companys proposed public offering of shares of its common stock. 27 Back to Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest associated with the Companys revolving line of credit, term loan, convertible notes and other debt as described in the notes to the Companys financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. As a result of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company expects that, when the proposed offering is completed and the net proceeds are applied to the intended uses, its debt levels will be substantially lower than their current levels which resulted from the acquisition of Bobcat on December 16, 2005. The Company also expects that its effective borrowing rate will be substantially less than that associated with the outstanding convertible subordinated debt intended to be converted to equity in connection with the proposed public offering. Accordingly, subsequent to the proposed public offering, interest expense is expected to be substantially lower than the levels of interest expense following the Companys acquisition of Bobcat. There can be no assurance that the proposed public offering will be completed. Interest income primarily consists of interest earned on the Companys cash balances. Depreciation Expense. The Companys depreciation expense is based on estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to capitalized costs, useful lives and salvage values of the Companys assets. The Company generally computes depreciation using the straight line method. Income Taxes. At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $29.2 million of net operating losses (NOLs) available to offset future taxable income. These NOLs will be applied to taxable income in 2006 prior to the Companys proposed public offering and will be subject to additional IRS Section 382 limitations subsequent to the Companys proposed public offering. Discontinued Activities. The Company sold its directional drilling division on August 6, 2004 and the operations of that division are reported in the financial statements in this Report as discontinued operations. Results of Operations The following discussion includes the results of operations of Bobcat for the period December 16, 2005 through December 31, 2005. For further information relating to the results of operations of Bobcat prior to the completion of the acquisition through September 30, 2005 and pro forma financial information reflecting the combined results of operations of the Company and Bobcat for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004, see the Companys Amendment No. 1 to its Current Report on Form 8 K filed on February 22, 2006. See also Note 2 to the Notes to Financial Statements For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 included in this Report for the pro forma statements of operations of the Company and Bobcat for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Revenues The Companys total revenues increased by approximately $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 2004. The pricing and utilization of the Companys services improved due to the increase in well maintenance and drilling activity caused by higher natural gas and oil prices. The Company also added eight additional wireline units during the year ended December 31, 2005 as well as approximately $769,000 of revenues from Bobcats operations following the acquisition. Operating Costs The Companys operating costs increased by approximately $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the same period of 2004. Operating costs were 59.0% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 64.1% of revenues for 2004. The decrease in operating costs as a percentage of revenues was primarily the result of the higher utilization and pricing in the year ended December 31, 2005 compared with 2004. Salaries and benefits increased by approximately $4.9 million 28 Back to Contents for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. Total number of employees increased from 313 at December 31, 2004 to approximately 480 at December 31, 2005, including approximately 80 employees from the Bobcat acquisition. The increase in salaries and benefits is primarily due to the increase in the number of employees in 2005 versus 2004. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $154,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 13.1% for the year ended December 31, 2005, from 17.6% in for the same period in 2004 due to relatively constant expenses and increased revenues. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased by approximately $41,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily due to certain assets becoming fully depreciated in the period. Interest Expense Interest expense and amortization of debt discount decreased by approximately $724,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. The decline in interest expense is attributable to the reduction in the Companys senior debt outstanding prior to the Bobcat acquisition. Change of Control Expense Change of control expense of $2.7 million was recognized in 2005 as a result of a change in the general partner of St. James Capital Partners, L.P. which, under the terms of certain key employment contracts, required payments to be made to those employees. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased by approximately $285,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the expensing of transaction expenses associated with a potential transaction which was terminated in August 2005. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was approximately $175,000 in 2005 and $0 in 2004. The Company realized a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004, thereby generating additional NOLs. The Company recorded net income during the year ended December 31, 2005, where NOLs were utilized to offset provision for federal income taxes. The provision for income taxes represents state income tax and alternative minimum tax provisions. A full valuation allowance has been recorded against the net deferred tax asset generated in prior years from net operating losses to be carried forward. Net Income Net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was approximately $8.2 million compared with a net loss of approximately $1.8 million for the same period of 2004. Included in 2004 results was a loss from operations of the discontinued directional drilling segment of approximately $1.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The improved results for the year ended December 31, 2005 over the same period in 2004 was primarily the result of an increase in revenues resulting from an increase in demand for the Companys services. Discontinued Operations The Company sold its directional drilling division business on August 6, 2004 and the operations of this division are reported in the financial statements included in this Report as discontinued operations. The comparisons detailed above reflect the Companys continuing operations. 29 Back to Contents Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Revenues The Companys revenues from continuing operations increased by approximately $7.9 million or 17.3 % to $53.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to revenues from continuing operations of $45.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The pricing and utilization of the Companys services improved due to the increase in well maintenance and drilling activity caused by higher natural gas and oil prices. The Company also averaged three additional wireline units for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Operating Costs Operating costs increased by $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to 2003. This increase was due primarily to the increase in the Companys revenues and the level of the Companys operations in 2004 as compared to 2003. Salaries and benefits increased by approximately $1.8 million for 2004 as compared to 2003. This was due primarily to the Companys increased employee base. Operating costs as a percentage of revenues decreased to 64.1 % in 2004 from 66.6 % in 2003 primarily because of the increased utilization of the Companys assets as well as increases in pricing for the Companys services. The increases in pricing were largely the outgrowth of and were dependent upon the increase in demand for services in the natural gas and oil well services sector. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $209,000 to $9.5 million in 2004. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 17.6 % in 2004 from 20.2 % in 2003, primarily as a result of the increased revenue level generated in 2004 which did not require a corresponding increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased from $4.7 million in 2003 to $5.2 million in 2004, primarily because of the increase in the Companys asset base resulting from capital expenditures in the second half of 2003 and 2004. Interest Expense Interest expense and amortization of debt discount decreased by approximately $531,000 for 2004 as compared to 2003. This was directly related to lower interest rates on outstanding senior debt in 2004 as well as the reduced levels of senior debt outstanding in 2004. Other Income Net gain on sale of fixed assets decreased in 2004 to a net gain of approximately $53,000 from an approximate $239,000 net gain in 2003. Other income decreased by approximately $98,000 in 2004. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $0 in 2004 and 2003. A full valuation allowance has been recorded against the net deferred tax assets generated each year from the net operating losses to be carried forward. Net Loss Net loss for 2004 was $1.8 million, compared with a net loss of $5.5 million in 2003. The improvement in the Companys results in 2004 over 2003 was primarily attributable to the increased demand for the Companys services in 2004 primarily resulting from the improved commodities prices in 2004 and offset by the impairment recorded of $1.4 million resulting from the sale of the directional assets. 30 Back to Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary liquidity needs are to fund capital expenditures, such as expanding its wireline and well intervention services, geographic expansion, acquiring and upgrading trucks, skids and snubbing units, the addition of complementary service lines and funding general working capital needs. In addition, the Company needs capital to fund strategic business acquisitions. The Companys primary sources of funds have historically been cash flow from operations, proceeds from borrowings under bank credit facilities and the issuance of debt. Upon completion of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company anticipates that it will rely on cash generated from operations, borrowings under its revolving credit facility and possible debt and equity offerings to satisfy its liquidity needs. The Company believes that with the current and anticipated operating environment of the natural gas and oil industry, it will be able to meet its liquidity requirements for the remainder of 2006. In addition to funding operating expenses, cash requirements for 2006 are expected to be comprised mainly of amortization payments on indebtedness and funding capital improvements. The Companys planned growth initiatives are expected to require capital expenditures of in excess of $100 million over the next three years. The Companys ability to fund planned capital expenditures and to make acquisitions will depend upon its future operating performance, and more broadly, on the availability of equity and debt financing, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the Companys industry, and general financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond the Companys control. Pursuant to employment contracts, the Company expects to make success bonus payments to certain key employees immediately prior to or concurrently with the closing of its proposed public offering in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.6 million of which approximately $1.5 million is accrued as of December 31, 2005. The Companys outstanding indebtedness includes primarily senior indebtedness aggregating approximately $55.2 million at December 31, 2005, other indebtedness of approximately $1.2 million and approximately $40.1 million (including approximately $18.2 million of accrued interest) owing primarily to the St. James Partnerships as well as other holders of subordinated notes. Cash provided by the Companys operating activities was approximately $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to cash provided of approximately $3.6 million for the same period in 2004 The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due mainly as a result in the increase in demand for the Companys services. During the year ended December 31, 2005, investing activities used cash of approximately $53.2 million for the acquisition of Bobcat and $8.3 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as compared to $7.5 million for the same period in 2004, more than offset by $10.4 million in proceeds from the sale of the Multishot division. During the year ended December 31, 2005, financing activities used cash of approximately $11.6 million for principal payments on debt and approximately $2.5 million for debt issuance costs offset by proceeds from bank and other borrowings and net draws on working capital revolving loans of approximately $56.2. In 2004, financing activities used cash of approximately $23.0 million for principal payments on debt and net payments on working capital revolving loans and other borrowings and debt issuance costs of approximately $378,000 offset by proceeds from bank and other borrowings of approximately $13.6 million. 31 Back to Contents Cash provided by the Companys operating activities was approximately $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to cash provided by operating activities of $10.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was mainly a result of the change in the Companys prepaid assets associated with the financing of insurance premiums, the assignment of current assets and current liabilities in connection with the sale of the directional drilling division and the timing of other current assets and liabilities. Investing activities used cash of approximately $7.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and was offset by proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations and fixed assets of $10.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2003, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment used cash of $3.1 million offset by proceeds of $685,000 from the sale of fixed assets. Financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2004 provided cash of $13.6 million offset by principal payments on long term notes and the Companys working capital revolving loan of $23.0 million and debt issuance costs of approximately $378,000. Financing activities provided cash of $5.4 million from borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2003 offset by principal payments on long term notes and the Companys working capital revolving loan of $10.3 million and debt issuance costs of approximately $48,000. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company expended approximately $56.3 million for the acquisition of Bobcat financed under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and approximately $961,000 for other property, plant and equipment financed under notes payable. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended approximately $841,000 for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment financed under notes payable. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $3.3 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment financed under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and notes payable. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2005 with respect to the Companys known contractual obligations of the types specified below: Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Total Prior to December 31, 2006 January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008 January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2011 January 1, 2012 and thereafter Long Term Debt(1) $ 78,343,883 $ 5,568,880 $ 8,729,771 $ 64,045,232 Capital Leases Purchase Obligations Change of Control Payment $ 1,535,388 $ 1,535,388 Other Long term Liabilities (1) Does not reflect planned use of proceeds from the Companys proposed public offering. 32 Back to Contents Description of the Companys Indebtedness Senior Secured Credit Agreement On December 16, 2005, the Company entered into the Senior Secured Credit Agreement with GECC, providing for a term loan and revolving and capital expenditure credit facilities in an aggregate amount of $50.0 million. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement amended, restated and modified the credit agreement the Company entered into with GECC as of September 14, 2001 and as it was amended and restated on November 14, 2004, including the amendments thereto. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement includes: a revolving credit facility of up to $15.0 million, but not exceeding a borrowing base of 85% of the book value of eligible accounts receivable, less any reserves GECC may establish from time to time, a term loan of $30.0 million, and a one year capital expenditure loan facility of up to $5.0 million, but not exceeding the lesser of 80% of the hard costs of eligible capital equipment and 75% of the forced liquidation value of eligible capital equipment, subject to adjustment by GECC. Eligible accounts receivable are accounts in which the Company has an interest excluding, among other items and, subject to certain exceptions, debtors accounts outstanding that are not paid within the earlier of 60 days past the due date or 90 days following the original invoice date, accounts of debtors that have suspended business or commenced various insolvency proceedings and accounts to the extent the account exceeds the credit limit established by GECC in its reasonable credit judgment. GECC has the right to establish, modify and eliminate reserves against eligible accounts receivable from time to time in its reasonable judgment. GECCs agreement to make revolving loans expires on December 16, 2008 and its agreement to make capital expenditure loans expires on December 16, 2006, unless earlier terminated under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. Interest Rates. Initially, as of the closing, the annual interest rate on borrowings under the revolving loan facility is 0.75% above the index rate, and the annual interest rate on borrowings under the term loan and capital expenditure loan facility is 2.25% above the index rate. The index rate is a floating rate equal to the higher of (i) the rate publicly quoted from time to time by the Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, or (ii) the average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions among members of the Federal Reserve System plus 0.5%. The interest rate margin above the index rate may be adjusted from time to time on a quarterly basis based on the Companys ratio of its funded debt to EBITDA for the trailing twelve months prior to the determination. Subject to the absence of an event of default and fulfillment of certain other conditions, the Company can elect to borrow or convert any loan and pay the annual interest at the LIBOR rate plus applicable margins of 2.25% on the revolving loan and 3.75% on the term loan and capital expenditure loan. If an event of default in the nature of a failure to make any payment of principal of, interest on or fees owing in respect to loans when due and payable or the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings involving the Company has occurred, the annual interest rate is increased by 2% and, if any other default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, GECC may elect to increase the interest rate by that amount. Collateral. Advances under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are collateralized by a senior lien against substantially all of the Companys assets. Use of Proceeds. Initial borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement advanced on December 16, 2005 were $1.3 million borrowed under the revolving loan and $30.0 million under the term loan. No 33 Back to Contents borrowings were made under the capital expenditure loan facility. The proceeds of the term loan were used to pay a portion of the Bobcat acquisition purchase price, related fees and expenses and repayment of substantially all Bobcat indebtedness, and approximately $2.1 million was placed in escrow for the repayment of principal and accrued interest on subordinated secured indebtedness and approximately $2.8 million was used for general corporate purposes. The outstanding balance of approximately $6.3 million under the Companys previous credit agreement with GECC was paid out of the Companys existing cash. Maturity of Loans. Borrowings under the revolving loan are able to be repaid and re borrowed from time to time for working capital and general corporate needs, subject to the Companys continuing compliance with the terms of the agreement. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving loan are due and payable on December 16, 2008. The term loan is to be repaid in 12 consecutive quarterly installments of $1.1 million commencing January 1, 2006 with a final installment of $16.8 million due and payable on January 1, 2009. The capital expenditure loan is to be repaid in eight consecutive quarterly installments with each quarterly installment equal to 1/20th of the borrowings funded prior to the expiration of the one year term of the facility and with a final installment in the amount of the remaining principal balance due on December 16, 2008. Mandatory and Voluntary Prepayments. Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are subject to certain mandatory pre payments including, among other requirements, pre payment out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering. The Company must apply the net proceeds from any sale of its stock, other than on exercise of existing warrants and conversion rights, occurring before December 31, 2006 to the prepayment of loans. Such cash proceeds, after deduction of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs the Company incurs are to be applied to the prepayment of (i) loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement, (ii) loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement, and (iii) to prepay or redeem all the Companys outstanding subordinated notes and shares of its common stock owned by St. James Capital Partners, L.P., SJMB, L.P. and other holders of the Companys subordinated secured notes as of December 16, 2005, the shares of the Companys common stock issued in exchange for warrants, subordinated notes and other convertible securities pursuant to the recapitalization agreements the Company entered into in October 2005, a fee in the amount of $274,000 owing to SJMB, L.P. and Change of Control payments in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.6 million the Company is required to make under the terms of employment agreements with certain of the Companys employees, as the term Change of Control is defined in those agreements (herein, amounts to be paid under this subsection (iii) are referred to as Junior Capital), in the following manner: (A) 100% of the first $50.0 million in net proceeds received are to be applied to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital; (B) net proceeds in excess of $50.0 million and up to $75.0 million are to be allocated 40% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 30% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 30% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement; (C) net proceeds in excess of $75.0 million and up to $100.0 million are to be allocated 60% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 20% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 20% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement; and (D) net proceeds in excess of $100.0 million are to be allocated 80% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 10% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 10% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement. 34 Back to Contents To the extent the Junior Capital is paid or repurchased in full under the foregoing provisions prior to the prepayment in full of loans outstanding under the Companys Credit Agreements, the remaining net proceeds are to be allocated 50% to loans outstanding under the Companys Credit Agreements. If any event of default has occurred under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and is continuing, and the Company has been notified in writing of such event of default (or the Company has been notified in writing of the equivalent event of default under the Second Lien Credit Agreement), at the time the Company receives the net proceeds, 100% of such net proceeds are to be allocated to the loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement, without application of any portion thereof to Junior Capital or loans under the Second Lien Credit Agreement. The Company has proposed to GECC that the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement be amended to provide that 100% of the net proceeds realized from its proposed public offering that is to be applied to the repayment of indebtedness owing to GECC be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and 0 % be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is awaiting a definitive response from GECC regarding this proposal. If the Company issues any shares of common stock, other than as described above, or any debt at any time, the Company is required to prepay the loans outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement in an amount equal to all such proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs. The Company is also required to prepay annually, commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, loans and other outstanding obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement in an amount equal to 75% of the Companys excess cash flow for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Excess cash flow is defined, with respect to any fiscal year, as the Companys net income plus depreciation, amortization and interest expense, to the extent deducted in determining net income, minus capital expenditures, minus interest expense paid or accrued and scheduled principal payments paid or payable, plus or minus, extraordinary gains or losses which are cash items not included in net income, plus taxes deducted in determining net income to the extent not paid in cash. Any mandatory prepayments made as provided above are to be applied substantially as follows: first, to any fees then due and payable to GECC, second, to interest then due and payable on the term loan and capital expenditure loan, pro rata between the term loan and capital expenditure loan, third, to prepay the scheduled principal installments on the term loan and capital expenditure loan, allocated pro rata between the term loan and capital expenditure loan, and applied to principal installments in inverse order of maturity, until the term loan and capital expenditure loan have been prepaid in full; fourth, to interest then due and payable on the revolving loan; and fifth, to the principal balance of the revolving loan until the same shall have been paid in full. The revolving loan is permanently reduced by the amount of any such prepayments. The Company may at any time prepay all or part of the term loan or capital expenditure loan, permanently reduce or terminate the capital expenditure commitment, and permanently reduce but not terminate the revolving loan commitment provided such prepayments or reductions are in the minimum amount of $500,000 and integral multiples of $250,000, subject to the payment of certain pre payment fees declining from 1.0% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the first year, 0.5% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the second year, and 0.25% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the third year of the term of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is required to use, subject to certain exceptions, the net proceeds from the sale of any assets or the stock of any subsidiary to prepay all borrowings under the facilities. The Company is required to repay any borrowings in excess of the applicable borrowing availability, including borrowings under the term loan in excess of 70% of the forced liquidation value of eligible term loan equipment. The forced liquidation value 35 Back to Contents of the eligible term loan equipment is established by appraisal conducted from time to time but not more than twice per year. Conditions to Advances. Future advances are subject to the continuing accuracy of the Companys representations and warranties as of such date (other than those relating expressly to an earlier date), the absence of any event or circumstance constituting a material adverse effect, as defined, the absence of any default or event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, and the borrowings not exceeding the applicable borrowing availability under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, after giving effect to such advance. A material adverse effect is defined to include a material adverse effect on the Companys business, assets, operations, prospects or financial or other condition, on the Companys ability to pay any of the loans under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, on the collateral or on lenders liens or rights and remedies under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. An event constituting a material adverse effect also includes a decline in the Average Rig Count (excluding Canada and international rigs) published by Baker Hughes, Inc. falling below 800 for 12 consecutive weeks. Further conditions to each advance under the capital expenditure facility require the delivery of evidence that the advance is in compliance with the conditions of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement with respect to amounts that may be borrowed to finance capital expenditures. Affirmative and Negative Covenants. Under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, the Company is obligated to maintain compliance with a number of affirmative and negative covenants. Affirmative covenants the Company must comply with include requirements to maintain the Companys corporate existence and continue the conduct of the Companys business substantially as conducted in December 2005, promptly pay all taxes and governmental assessments and levies, maintain the Companys corporate books and records, maintain insurance in form and amounts and with insurers reasonably acceptable to GECC, comply with applicable laws and regulations, maintain key man life insurance on the life of William L. Jenkins, provide supplemental disclosure to the lenders, refrain from violating the intellectual property of others, conduct the Companys operations in compliance with environmental laws, provide a mortgage or deed of trust to the lenders granting a first lien on the Companys real estate upon the request of the lenders, and provide certificates of title on newly acquired equipment with the lenders lien noted. Negative covenants the Company may not violate include, among others and subject to limitations and exceptions, (i) forming or acquiring a subsidiary, (ii) merging with, acquiring all or substantially all the assets or stock of, or otherwise combining with or acquiring, another person, (iii) making an investment in or loan to another person, subject to certain exceptions for specified high grade investments so long as there are no revolving loans outstanding, (iv) incurring any indebtedness other than specified permitted indebtedness, (v) entering into any transaction with an affiliate except in the ordinary course of the Companys business and on fair and reasonable terms no less favorable than would be obtained in a comparable arms length transaction with a non affiliated person, (vi) making loans to its employees in amounts exceeding $50,000 individually and $250,000 in the aggregate, (vii) issuing any shares of the Companys common stock if any of its stock or the stock of a subsidiary is pledged to GECC, making any change in its business objectives or operations that could adversely affect repayment of the loans or could reasonably be expected to have or result in a material adverse effect, making any change in its capital structure, including the issuance of any stock, warrants or convertible securities or any revision in the terms of outstanding stock except for permitted payments to holders of subordinated debt and options granted under an existing or future incentive option plan, or amending its charter or by laws in a manner that would adversely affect its duty or ability to repay the indebtedness, or engaging in any business other than that engaged in by the Company on December 16, 2005; (viii) creating or permitting to exist any liens on its properties or assets, with the exception of (x) those granted to the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement or in existence on the date of making the loan and permitted re financings, extensions and renewals of such liens provided the indebtedness secured is not increased and the lien does not attach to any additional property, or (y) liens created after December 16, 2005 by conditional sale or other title retention agreements or in connection with purchase money indebtedness with respect to equipment and 36 Back to Contents fixtures acquired in the ordinary course of business involving the incurrence of an aggregate amount of purchase money indebtedness and capital lease obligations of not more than $2.0 million outstanding at any one time or (z) liens securing the indebtedness under the Second Lien Credit Agreement, (xi) selling any of its properties or other assets, including the stock of any subsidiary, except inventory in the ordinary course of business, obsolete or unused equipment or fixtures with an appraised value not exceeding $200,000 per transaction and $500,000 per year, and other equipment and fixtures with a book value not exceeding $200,000 per transaction and $500,000 per year, (xii) breaching or failing to comply with the various financial covenants in the credit agreement, (xiii) releasing any hazardous material that would violate environmental laws or adversely impact the value of any collateral; (xiv) engaging in a sale leaseback, synthetic lease or similar transaction, (xv) making any restricted payments, including payment of dividends, stock or warrant redemptions, repaying subordinated notes, except as otherwise permitted under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, rescission of the sale of outstanding stock, subject to certain exceptions including, among others, permitted prepayments or redemptions of Junior Capital using the net proceeds from a public offering of its common stock, payment of reasonable and customary fees to its non employee directors, reimbursement of the reasonable expenses of St. James Capital Corp., St. James Capital Partners, L.P., SJMB, LP, and SJMB, LLC in an amount not to exceed $60,000 per year, payment of a $274,000 fee to SJMB, L.P. not later than December 31, 2006 or the date the Company complete its first public offering of common stock after December 16, 2005, and Change of Control payments (as Change of Control is defined in the employment agreements with the parties to receive the payments) on and after December 16, 2005 but before December 31, 2005 in the amount of approximately $1.1 million, and, in connection with in a contemplated public offering of shares of its common stock, in an aggregate amount not to exceed approximately $2.7 million, (xvi) purchasing any real estate in excess of $250,000, (xvii) engaging in any speculative hedging transactions; (xviii) amending or changing the terms of its subordinated debt, (xix) changing or amending the Second Lien Credit Agreement, or (xx) changing or amending the Bobcat acquisition agreement. The financial covenants prohibit the Company from making capital expenditures in any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 in an aggregate amount exceeding $6.5 million (excluding amounts financed under its capital expenditure loan facility), plus in any subsequent period the amount by which $6.5 million exceeds the amount of capital expenditures expended in the prior period. Commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006, the Company is required to have at the end of each fiscal quarter and for the 12 month period then ended, a ratio of (a) EBITDA minus capital expenditures paid in cash during such period, excluding capital expenditures financed under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, minus income taxes paid in cash during such period to (b) fixed charges including, with certain exceptions, the total of principal and interest payments during such period, of not less than 1.5:1.0. For the purpose of calculating the ratio for the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, EBITDA and fixed charges are to be measured for the period commencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the last day of such fiscal quarter. The Company is required to have, at the end of each fiscal month, a ratio of funded debt to EBITDA as of the last day of such fiscal month and for the 12 month period then ended of not more than the following: 2.25:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2006 through March 31, 2006; 2.25:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on April 30, 2006 through June 30, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on July 31, 2006 through September 30, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on October 30, 2006 through December 31, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2007 through March 31, 2007; and 1.75:1.00 for each fiscal month ending thereafter. The Company is required to have, at the end of each fiscal month, EBITDA for the 12 month period then ended of not less than the following: 37 Back to Contents $33,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2006 through March 31, 2006; $33,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on April 30, 2006 through June 30, 2006; $34,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on July 31, 2006 through September 30, 2006; $34,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on October 30, 2006 through December 31, 2006; and $35,000,000 for each fiscal month ending thereafter. Events of Default. Events of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement include, among others and subject to certain limitations, (a) the failure to make any payment of principal, interest, or fees when due and payable or to pay or reimburse GECC for any expense reimbursable under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement within ten days of demand for payment, (b) the failure to perform the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement relating to use of proceeds, maintenance of a cash management system, maintenance of insurance, delivery of certificates of title for equipment, delivery of certain post closing documents, and maintenance of compliance with the Senior Secured Credit Agreements negative covenants, (c) the failure to deliver to the lenders monthly un audited, quarterly un audited and annual audited financial statements, an annual operating plan, and other reports, certificates and information as required by the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, (d) the failure to perform any other provision of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement (other than those set forth in (b) above) which nonperformance remains un remedied for 20 days or more, (e) a default or breach under any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party beyond any grace period that involves the failure to pay in excess of $250,000 or causes or permits to cause indebtedness in excess of $250,000 to become due prior to its stated maturity, (f) any information in a borrowing base certificate or any representation or warranty or certificate or in any written statement report, or financial statement delivered to GECC being untrue or incorrect in any material respect, (g) a change of control, as defined, of the Company, (h) the occurrence of an event having a material adverse effect, (i) the initiation of insolvency, bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, (j) any final judgment for the payment of money in excess of $250,000 is outstanding against the Company and is not within thirty days discharged, stayed or bonded pending appeal, (k) any material provision of or lien under any document relating to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement ceases to be valid, (l) the attachment, seizure or levy upon of the Companys assets which continues for 30 days or more, and (m) William Jenkins ceases to serve as the Companys chief executive officer, unless otherwise agreed by GECC. Upon the occurrence of a default, which is defined as any event that with the passage of time or notice or both would, unless waived or cured, become an event of default, or event of default, the lenders may discontinue making revolving loans and capital expenditure loans to the Company and increase the interest rate on all loans. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders may terminate the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, declare all indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement due and payable, and exercise any of their rights under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement which includes the ability to foreclose on the Companys assets. In the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, all borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are immediately due and payable. Second Lien Credit Agreement The Term Loan. On December 16, 2005, the Company entered into the Second Lien Credit Agreement with GECC, providing for a term loan $25.0 million. Interest Rate. The annual interest rate on borrowings under the term loan is 6.0% above the index rate. The index rate is a floating rate equal to the higher of (i) the rate publicly quoted from time to time by the Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, or (ii) the average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions among members of the Federal Reserve System plus 0.5%. Subject to the absence of an event of default and fulfillment of certain other conditions, the Company can elect to borrow or convert any loan and pay the annual interest at the LIBOR rate plus a margin of 7.5%. If an event of default in the nature of a failure to make any payment of principal of, interest on or fees owing in respect to loans when due and payable or the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings involving the Company has occurred, the annual interest 38 Back to Contents rate is increased by 2% and, if any other default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, GECC may elect to increase the interest rate by that amount. Collateral. The loan under the Second Lien Credit Agreement is collateralized by a junior lien against substantially all of the Companys assets, subordinate to the lien under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. Use of Proceeds. Initial borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement advanced on December 16, 2005 of $25.0 million were used to pay a portion of the Bobcat acquisition purchase price. Maturity of Loan. Outstanding borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are due and payable on March 16, 2009, unless previously repaid. Mandatory and Voluntary Prepayments. Borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are subject to certain mandatory pre payments including, among other requirements, pre payment out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering in a manner substantially identical to the mandatory repayment provisions out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. As is described above, the Company has proposed to GECC that the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement be amended to provide that 100% of the net proceeds realized from its proposed public offering that is to be applied to the repayment of indebtedness owing to GECC be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and 0 % be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is awaiting a definitive response from GECC regarding this proposal. If the Company issues any shares of common stock, other than as described above in a public offering of the Companys securities, or any debt at any time, the Company is required to prepay the loans outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement in an amount equal to all such proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs. Any mandatory prepayments made as provided above are to be applied substantially as follows: first, to any fees then due and payable to GECC, second, to interest then due and payable on the loan and, third, to prepay the principal of the loan. The Company may at any time prepay all or part of the loan or capital expenditure loan, subject to the payment of certain pre payment fees declining from 2.0% in during the first year, 1.0% during the second year, and 0.5% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the third year of the term of the Second Lien Credit Agreement. The Company is required to use, subject to certain exceptions, the net proceeds from the sale of any assets or the stock of any subsidiary to prepay all borrowings under the facilities. Closing Conditions. Initial borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement were subject to the fulfillment at or before the closing of closing conditions substantially identical to the conditions to be fulfilled in connection with the closing under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. Affirmative and Negative Covenants. Under the Second Lien Credit Agreement, the Company is obligated to maintain compliance with a number of affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that are substantially identical to the covenants the Company is obligated to comply with under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. Events of Default. Events of default under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are substantially identical to events of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. 39 Back to Contents Credit Agreements General There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to remain in compliance with the financial and other covenants of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement or be able to obtain such amendments, consents or waivers with respect to potential violations of these covenants when required. The Companys inability to do so may result in it being placed in violation of those financial and other covenants. The Company can make no assurances that it will remain in compliance with the Companys debt covenants or generate sufficient cash flows to service its debt and fund operations. Failure to comply with these debt covenants and or generate sufficient cash flow from operations could significantly impair its liquidity position and could result in GECC exercising mandatory prepayment options under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement. Should the Company be unable to borrow funds under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement or Second Lien Credit Agreement if prepayment of those borrowings were required, the Company can make no assurances that alternative funding could be obtained. Reference is made to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement, filed as exhibits to the Companys Current Report on Form 8 K for December 16, 2005 for a complete statement of the terms and conditions. Subordinated Secured Indebtedness Note Extensions In connection with the Company entering into the GECC refinancing in November 2004, the Company agreed with the holders of its outstanding subordinated secured notes to extend the maturity date of the notes from December 31, 2004 to February 13 and February 14, 2008 on $23.0 million of the total $23.9 million principal amount of the notes then outstanding. The remainder of the outstanding principal was repaid. Concurrently with the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement, the maturity date of approximately $21.9 million principal amount of the Companys outstanding subordinated secured promissory notes was extended to June 15, 2009 and $2.1 million of such subordinated secured notes, including accrued interest, was repaid. The notes bear interest at 15% per annum and are convertible into shares of the Companys common stock at a conversion price of $7.50 per share, subject to an anti dilution adjustment for certain issuances of securities by the Company at prices per share of common stock less than the conversion price then in effect, in which event the conversion price is reduced to the lower price at which the shares were issued. As a condition to extend the maturity date of the notes in connection with the GECC refinancing in November 2004, the Company extended the expiration date of the Companys 6.6 million outstanding common stock purchase warrants to December 31, 2009. Substantially all of the Companys assets are pledged as collateral for the indebtedness outstanding under the subordinated secured notes. All of the debt and interest owed under the subordinated secured notes is subordinated to the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and cannot be repaid until all the amounts owed pursuant to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement mature or have been repaid. Following completion of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company does not expect to have any subordinated secured notes outstanding. Other Indebtedness. In December 2004, the Company incurred indebtedness of approximately $2.3 million in connection with financing the payment of annual insurance premiums in that amount. The indebtedness was payable in monthly installments that ended in September 2005. Recapitalization In October 2005, the Company initiated a series of steps undertaken for the purpose of recapitalizing the Company through the elimination of the substantial amount of derivative securities it has outstanding, among other steps intended to be undertaken. These derivative securities include common stock purchase 40 Back to Contents warrants to purchase 7,076,119 shares of the Companys common stock and $35,019,173 of principal amount and accrued interest, as of December 31, 2005, of its outstanding convertible subordinated notes which, as of that date, are convertible at a conversion price of $7.50 per share into an aggregate of 4,669,223 shares of the Companys common stock. On October 6, 2005, the Company entered into agreements with the holders of 5,269,369 of the 7,076,119 warrants outstanding to exchange those warrants for 1,756,456 shares of the Companys common stock. Of the 5,269,369 warrants, an aggregate of 4,075,528 are held by the St. James Partnerships, and 1,193,841 were held by the Underbrink Family Entities, which include Mr. Charles E. Underbrink. Mr. Underbrink is one of the Companys directors and is the Chairman of the general partner of SJMB, L.P. and, in October 2005, was the Chairman of the general partner of St. James Capital Partners, L.P. The exchange of warrants for shares of the Companys common stock by the Underbrink Family Entities was completed on October 6, 2005 resulting in the issuance of 397,947 shares, and the warrants to purchase 4,075,527 shares held by the St. James Partnerships are to be repurchased in connection with the Companys proposed public offering. In the event the warrants to purchase 4,075,527 shares held by the St. James Partnerships have not been purchased by the Company by June 30, 2006, the warrants will be converted into 1,358,509 shares of common stock. On October 7, 2005, the Company commenced an offer to exchange shares of its common stock for its remaining outstanding 1,806,750 common stock purchase warrants. The Company offered to exchange one share of the Companys common stock for each three warrants. Each warrant represents the right to purchase one share of the Companys common stock at an exercise price of $7.50 per share. The offer to exchange shares of the Companys common stock for warrants expired on November 14, 2005, and the Company issued 503,167 shares of its common stock in exchange for 1,509,500 common stock purchase warrants. The agreements with the St. James Partnerships and Underbrink Family Entities provide that such persons will convert an aggregate of $20,277,374 of principal and all accrued interest (which amounted to $16,734,434 through December 31, 2005) on the Companys outstanding convertible subordinated notes into shares of the Companys common stock and, provided the price they are to receive is not less than $7.50 per share, sell those shares to the Company, along with the shares issued in exchange for their warrants, the shares issued on conversion of notes and accrued interest in November 2005 and an additional 501,748 shares held by SJMB, L.P., at the closing time of the Companys proposed public offering. The purchase price paid by the Company for such shares will be the price per share it receives in the public offering less commissions and expenses of the underwriters in the offering. In addition, under the terms of a Registration Rights Agreement, the holders of $3,041,361 principal amount and accrued interest (as of December 31, 2005) on outstanding convertible subordinated notes have the right to have included 405,515 shares issuable on conversion of the principal and interest on the notes, as well as the shares of the Companys common stock issued in exchange for their warrants, in the registration statement relating to the Companys proposed public offering. If the managing underwriter concludes that the amount of shares included in the registration statement for the account of selling stockholders must be reduced, the Companys Recapitalization Agreements with the Underbrink Family Entities and the St. James Partnerships provide that the first shares to be cut back out of the number of shares to be sold and required to be purchased by the Company out of the net proceeds of its proposed public offering, are the shares held by the Underbrink Family Entities (including Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and any other shares held). If the managing underwriter is of the view that a larger cutback is to be made in the number of shares included in the proposed public offering for the account of selling stockholders, the second classification of shares to be cut back out of shares required to be purchased by the Company out of the net proceeds of the Companys proposed public offering will be the 501,748 shares held by SJMB, L.P. Thereafter, if the managing underwriter is of the view that a larger cutback is to be made in the number of shares included for the account of selling stockholders, the Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and Warrants held by the St. James Partnerships to 41 Back to Contents be purchased by the Company at the closing of the proposed public offering will be cut back pro rata based on the number of Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and Warrants proposed to be sold collectively by the St. James Partnerships. For these purposes and the pro rata calculations required, each three Warrants would be treated as the equivalent of one Exchange Share and the first of the securities to be cut back from purchase by the Company from the St. James Partnerships would be the Conversion Shares and the last to be cut back would be the Warrants. Other Matters Litigation involving the St. James Partnerships, their general partners and Charles E. Underbrink The St. James Partnerships, their general partners and Charles E. Underbrink, who is one of the Companys directors and a director of one of the general partners of the St. James Partnerships, were added as defendants in an amended complaint filed in March 2005 in Texas by two of the limited partners of the St. James Partnerships. The action was originally instituted in December 2004 against the auditors of the St. James Partnerships. The plaintiffs brought the action as a class action on behalf of all the limited partners of the St. James Partnerships and are seeking class action certification. No claim has been asserted against the Company and the Company is not a defendant in the action. However, the complaint and the amended complaint in the action contain allegations that the Company participated with Mr. Underbrink in actions the plaintiffs allege were fraudulent and constituted securities violations. The Company has not concluded that it is probable that a claim will be asserted against it and it does not believe that if a claim is asserted that there is a reasonable possibility that the outcome would be unfavorable to the Company or that any resulting liability would be material to its financial condition. In the Companys view, the allegations in the complaint and amended complaint relating to it are baseless, without factual foundation and untrue. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements On December 21, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Staff Position (FSP) FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, was issued. FSP FAS 109 1 clarifies that this tax deduction should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with Statement 109. As such, the special deduction has no effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at the date of enactment. Rather, the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction is claimed on the Companys tax return beginning in 2005. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)). This Statement requires that the costs of employee share based payments be measured at fair value on the awards grant date using an option pricing model and recognized in the financial statements over the requisite service period. This Statement does not change the accounting for stock ownership plans, which are subject to American Institute of Certified Public Accountants SOP 93 6, Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans. Statement 123(R) supersedes Opinion 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and its related interpretations, and eliminates the alternative to use Opinion 25s intrinsic value method of accounting, which the Company is currently using. Certain stock awards may be considered liabilities instead of equity components under SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) allows for two alternative transition methods. The first method is the modified prospective application whereby compensation cost for the portion of awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered that are outstanding as of the adoption date will be recognized over the remaining service period. The compensation cost for that portion of awards will be based on the grant date fair value of those awards as calculated for pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123, as originally issued. All new awards and awards that are modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the adoption date will be accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). The second method is the modified retrospective application, which requires that the Company restate prior period financial statements. The modified 42 Back to Contents retrospective application may be applied either to all prior periods or only to prior interim periods in the year of adoption of this statement. The Company adopted the modified prospective application method on January 1, 2006 and does not expect a material impact on its financial statements. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, which is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The amendments made by SFAS No. 151 will improve financial reporting by clarifying that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges and by requiring the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The adoption of Statement 151 did not have a significant effect on the Companys financial statements. In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46(R)), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51. The primary objectives of FIN 46R are to provide guidance on the identification of entities for which control is achieved through means other than through voting rights (variable interest entities or VIEs) and how to determine if a business enterprise should consolidate the VIEs. This new model for consolidation applies to an entity for which either: the equity investors (if any) do not have a controlling financial interest; or the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance the entitys activities without receiving additional subordinated financial support from other parties. In addition, FIN 46(R) requires that all enterprises with a significant variable interest in a VIE make additional disclosures regarding their relationship with the VIE. The interpretation requires public entities to apply FIN 46(R) to all entities that are considered Special Purpose Entities in practice and under the FASB literature that was applied before the issuance of FIN 46(R). The adoption of FIN 46R had no effect on the Companys financial statements. Inflation. The Companys revenues have been and are expected to continue to be affected by fluctuations in the prices for natural gas and oil. Inflation did not have a significant effect on its operations in 2005. Significant Accounting Policies The Companys Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the allowance for bad debts, inventory, long lived assets, intangibles and goodwill. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Companys allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at an amount equal to estimated losses in its accounts receivable. The Company continually monitors the accounts receivable from its customers for any collectability issues. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on reviews of individual customer accounts, recent loss experience, current economic conditions, and other pertinent factors. Accounts deemed uncollectible are charged to the allowance. Provisions for bad debts and recoveries on accounts previously charged off are added to the allowance. All accounts outstanding more than 30 days are considered past due. Long Lived Assets In accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the Company recognizes impairment losses on long lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows over the life of the assets are less than the assets carrying amount. If an impairment exists, the amount of such impairment is calculated 43 Back to Contents based on projections of future discounted cash flows. These projections use a discount rate and terminal value multiple that would be customary for evaluating current natural gas and oil services company transactions. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is stated at cost. The Company implemented SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets on January 1, 2002 and ceased amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires an assessment of potential impairment upon adoption and annually thereafter in the month it elected to perform its analysis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Intangible assets are stated at cost and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets are subject to an assessment of potential impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company considers external factors in making its assessment. Specifically, changes in oil prices and other economic conditions surrounding the industry, consolidation within the industry, competition from other natural gas and oil well services providers, the ability to employ and maintain a skilled workforce, and other pertinent factors are among the factors that could lead its management to reassess the reliability of its goodwill and intangible assets. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are carried at original cost less applicable depreciation. Depreciation is recognized on the straight line basis over lives ranging from two to ten years. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized and depreciated over each assets estimated remaining useful life. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to expense as incurred. When assets are sold or retired, the remaining costs and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in income. Property and equipment held and used by the Company is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Company estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of the affected assets to determine the recoverability of carrying amounts. Revenue Recognition The Company derives revenues from performance of services and the sale of equipment. Service revenues are recognized at the time services are performed. The Companys sales are not usually subject to rights of return, and historically, sales returns have not been significant. Revenue related to equipment sales is recognized when the equipment has been shipped and title and risk of loss has been passed to the customer. Deferred revenue, net of deferred related cost of sales, is recorded as unearned revenues in the Companys balance sheet based on the relative days completed on the job to total required. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, the Company generally considers all expected future events other than enactments of changes in tax laws or rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company had no off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2004 and 2005. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk From time to time, the Company holds financial instruments comprised of debt securities and time deposits. All such instruments are classified as securities available for sale. The Company does not invest in portfolio equity securities, or commodities, or use financial derivatives for trading or hedging purposes. The Companys debt security portfolio represents funds held temporarily pending use in its business and operations. The Company manages these funds accordingly. The Company seeks reasonable assuredness of the safety of principal and market liquidity by investing in rated fixed income securities while, at the 44 Back to Contents same time, seeking to achieve a favorable rate of return. Its market risk exposure consists of exposure to changes in interest rates and to the risks of changes in the credit quality of issuers. The Company typically invest in investment grade securities with a term of three years or less. The Company believes that any exposure to interest rate risk is not material. At December 31, 2005, the Company held no investments. Under the Companys Credit Agreements with GECC, it is subject to market risk exposure related to changes in the prime interest rate. Assuming the Companys level of borrowings from GECC at December 31, 2005 remained unchanged throughout 2006, if a 100 basis point increase in interest rates under the Credit Agreements from rates in existence at December 31, 2005 prevailed throughout the year 2006, it would increase the Companys 2006 interest expense by approximately $552,000. The foregoing does not give effect to any repayment of outstanding indebtedness under the Companys Credit Agreements out of the net proceeds it may realize in its proposed public offering. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. Such forward looking statements relate to the Companys ability to complete its proposed public offering and restructure its balance sheet, generate revenues and maintain profitability and cash flow, the stability and level of prices for natural gas and oil, predictions and expectations as to the fluctuations in the levels of natural gas and oil prices, pricing in the natural gas and oil services industry and the willingness of customers to commit for natural gas and oil well services, the Companys ability to raise additional debt or equity capital to meet its requirements and the Companys intended growth initiatives and to obtain additional financing to fund that growth when required, the Companys ability to maintain compliance with the covenants of its various loan documents and other agreements pursuant to which its securities, including debt instruments, have been issued and obtain waivers of violations that occur and consents to amendments as required, the Companys ability to compete in the premium natural gas and oil services market, the Companys ability to re deploy its equipment among regional operations as required, and the Companys ability to provide services using state of the art tooling and its ability to successfully integrate and operate the Bobcat operations. Important factors that may affect the Companys ability to meet these objectives or requirements include: adverse developments in general economic conditions; changes in capital markets; adverse developments in the natural gas and oil industry; developments in international relations; the commencement or expansion of hostilities by the United States or other governments; events of terrorism; and declines and fluctuations in the prices for natural gas and oil; Material declines in the prices for natural gas and oil can be expected to adversely affect the Companys revenues. The Company cautions readers that various risk factors described in this Annual Report could cause the Companys operating results and financial condition to differ materially from those 20 Back to Contents expressed in any forward looking statements it makes and could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and the Companys ability to pursue its business strategy and plans, including its ability to complete its proposed public offering. Risk factors that could affect the Companys revenues, profitability and future business operations, among others, are set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is not an accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b 2 of the Exchange Act, or a well known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and is not required to respond to this Item. The Company did not receive within 180 days before December 31, 2005 any written comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports which comments remain unresolved. Item 2. Properties The Company leases 5,000 square feet of office space in Columbus, Mississippi for a five year term expiring on December 31, 2006 for the Companys executive offices. The monthly rental is $5,000. The Company also leases approximately 4,000 square feet of corporate and sales office space in Houston, Texas. The monthly lease expense is approximately $5,500 and has a term of five years ending August 2011, with an option to cancel the lease after three years. The Company maintains district offices at 25 locations throughout the Companys service areas and manufacturing facilities in Laurel, Mississippi and Decatur, Texas. Of such facilities, three are owned by the Company and the others are leased with rental periods ranging from a month to month basis to five years. The aggregate annual rental for the leased facilities is approximately $786,000. Management believes that these facilities are adequate for the Companys current requirements. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In March, 2006, one of the Companys shareholders presented it with a demand for corrective action to remedy alleged breaches of fiduciary duty by William L. Jenkins, Charles E. Underbrink and James H. Harrison. The shareholder alleges that these directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with various transactions, including the exchange of the Companys warrants for shares of its common stock in October and November 2005, the extension of the expiration date of the Companys warrants in December 2004, the Companys failure to refinance certain of its derivative securities by the end of 2004, the amendment of the Companys certificate of incorporation in December 2005 and the triggering of the change of control payment due to Mr. Jenkins in December 2005. The shareholder further alleges that these directors were interested in such transactions, that such transactions were not fair to the Company and that the St. James Partnerships, Simmons & Company International, Ron E. Whitter and another officer of the company participated in such breaches and or aided and abetted them. The shareholder has indicated that if the Company fails to take appropriate action to remedy the breaches following the presentation of its demand, it intends to bring a derivative suit on behalf of the Company. The Companys board of directors intends to take such steps as it considers appropriate to investigate this matter. However, based on information received through March 29, 2006, the Company believes these allegations are without merit and, if a suit is filed, the Company expects that it will be vigorously defended. The Company does not expect the liability, if any, resulting from this matter to have a material adverse effect on its current financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Back to Contents The Company is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings which management considers to be ordinary routine litigation that is incidental to the Companys business. The Company does not expect to incur any material liability as a consequence of such litigation. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders By written consent effective on November 23, 2005, the holders of 1,174,920 shares of the Companys common stock, a majority of its common stock outstanding at the time, approved the adoption of amendments to the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The amendments (i) effected a share combination (a reverse stock split) whereby each ten (10) shares of previously authorized, issued and outstanding shares of the Companys common stock were combined into one (1) share of common stock, (ii) reduced the number of shares of common stock the Company is authorized to issue from 175,000,000 shares to 35,000,000 shares, (ii) granted to the Companys Board of Directors the authority to issue the 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock it is authorized to issue under its Certificate of Incorporation in one or more series, without further approval of stockholders and to establish the rights and terms of each series, (iv) provide that, except as otherwise required by law or provided by the terms of any series of its preferred stock, special meetings of its stockholders for any purpose may be called at any time only by a majority of its Board of Directors or the Chairman of its Board or its President, and (v) provide that, except as otherwise required by law or provided by the terms of any series of its preferred stock, stockholders may not take any action by written consent, unless such action is taken by unanimous written consent. 22 Back to Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information The Companys common stock is traded in the over the counter market and quotations appear in the Pink Sheets under the trading symbol WGSV (formerly BWWR). The following table sets forth the high and low bid prices for the Companys common stock in the over the counter market for the periods indicated as provided by the Pink Sheets. On December 27, 2005, the Company effected a one for ten reverse stock split of its common stock. All bid prices in the following table give effect to the reverse stock split. Bid Prices 2004 High Low First Quarter $ 3.90 $ 2.50 Second Quarter 4.00 1.00 Third Quarter 2.00 1.00 Fourth Quarter 2.00 1.00 Bid Prices 2005 High Low First Quarter $ 2.70 $ 1.50 Second Quarter 6.10 1.20 Third Quarter 9.00 4.50 Fourth Quarter 12.00 10.50 Bid Prices 2006 High Low First Quarter (through March 30, 2006) $ 19.00 $ 10.01 There has been very limited trading activity in the Companys common stock. By reason of this limited trading activity, the quoted prices for the Companys common stock have been subject to wide fluctuations on very limited trading activity in the common stock. The foregoing amounts represent inter dealer quotations without adjustment for retail markups, markdowns or commissions, and do not represent the prices of actual transactions. The last sales price for the Companys common stock on March 30, 2006, as reported by the Pink Sheets, was $19.00 per share. As of March 22, 2006, the Company had approximately 450 stockholders of record and the Company believes it had in excess of 500 beneficial holders of the Companys common stock. Proposed Public Offering and Application to List the Companys Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market On February 13, 2006, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement on Form S l under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for the sale of up to $185.2 million of shares of common stock by the Company and certain selling securityholders. The Company expects to use the proceeds it receives from its proposed public offering to simplify its capital structure by eliminating 23 Back to Contents outstanding derivative securities and to reduce debt. In connection with that offering, the Company filed an application to list its common stock on the Nasdaq National Market under the trading symbol WARR. Dividends The Company has never paid a cash dividend on its common stock and it has no present intention of commencing to pay dividends. The Company is prohibited from paying dividends under the terms of its Credit Agreements. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company sold the following securities not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended: Under Recapitalization Agreements the Company entered into on October 6, 2005, (1) Mr. Charles E. Underbrink and family members and affiliated entities (the Underbrink Family Entities) exchanged all of their 1,193,841 warrants for 397,947 shares of common stock (on the ratio of three warrants for one share of common stock), and they have agreed to convert the Subordinated Convertible Notes they hold into shares of common stock at the closing of a currently proposed public offering of shares of the Companys common stock and sell all their shares to the Company at the closing of the public offering at the net price per share the Company receives in the public offering, but not less than $7.50 per share; and (2) St. James Capital Partners, L.P. and SJMB, L.P., (the St. James Partnerships), private investment funds, agreed to sell to the Company at the closing of the public offering all of the warrants they hold at a price, for each three warrants, equal to the net price per share the Company receives in the offering, but not less than $7.50 per share. They also agreed to convert their Subordinated Convertible Notes into shares of the Companys common stock and sell to the Company at the closing of the public offering those shares, plus 501,748 shares of common stock held by SJMB, L.P., at the net price per share the Company receives in the offering, but not less than $7.50 per share. On October 7, 2005, the Company commenced a tender offer to holders of the Companys outstanding common stock purchase warrants to exchange their warrants for shares of the Companys common stock at the exchange rate of three warrants for one share of the Companys common stock. This offer remained open through November 14, 2005 and any acceptances were irrevocable. The offer was open to all holders of the Companys warrants and was not subject to any minimum acceptance. The holders tendered 1,510,000 warrants in exchange for 503,333 shares of the Companys common stock. All warrants tendered to the Company and accepted were retired. The transactions described above were exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act by virtue of Section 3(a)(9) thereof. Purchase of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Neither the Company nor any affiliated purchaser, as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3), repurchased any shares of the Companys Common Stock during the year ended December 31, 2005. 24 Back to Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Set forth below is certain financial information for each of the five years ended December 31, 2005 ,2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 taken from the Companys audited financial statements. Prior period income statement items have been restated for continued operations. Amounts are stated in thousands, except per share data. December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Revenues(1) $ 73,667 $ 53,687 $ 45,757 $ 34,094 $ 39,682 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 15,413 $ 4,630 $ 1,386 $ (4,173 ) $ 4,064 Net income (loss) per common share basic $ 5.75 $ (1.41 ) $ (4.43 ) $ (6.06 ) $ 4.03 Net income (loss) per common share diluted $ 4.41 $ (1.41 ) $ (4.43 ) $ (6.06 ) $ 4.03 Current assets $ 23,106 $ 15,665 $ 16,035 $ 16,117 $ 17,366 Total assets $ 101,634 $ 30,109 $ 41,401 $ 49,671 $ 50,481 Current liabilities $ 16,944 $ 8,789 $ 64,439 $ 20,176 $ 16,829 Total liabilities(2) $ 117,205 $ 55,318 $ 64,905 $ 67,720 $ 61,128 Cash dividends 0 0 0 0 0 (1) See Note 5 to Notes to Financial Statements for information regarding acquisitions made by the Company. (2) See Note 9 to Notes to Financial Statements for information relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness. 25 Back to Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Item 6. Selected Financial Data and the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Report. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys future plans, estimates, beliefs and expected performance. The forward looking statements are dependent upon events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside the Companys control. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, market prices for natural gas and oil, economic and competitive conditions, regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other uncertainties, as well as those factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, all of which are difficult to predict. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward looking events discussed may not occur. Overview The Company is a natural gas and oil well services company that provides cased hole wireline and well intervention services to E&P companies. The Companys wireline services focus on cased hole wireline operations, including logging services, perforating, mechanical services, pipe recovery and plugging and abandoning the well. The Companys well intervention services are primarily hydraulic workover services, commonly known as snubbing services. All of the Companys services are performed at the well site and are fundamental to establishing and maintaining the flow of natural gas and oil throughout the productive life of the well. The Companys results of operations are affected primarily by the extent of utilization and rates paid for its wireline and well intervention services, which is dependent upon the upstream spending by the natural gas and oil exploration and production companies that comprise its client base. The Company derives a majority of its revenues from services supporting production from existing natural gas and oil operations. Demand for these production related services is less volatile than drilling related services and tends to remain relatively stable, even in lower natural gas and oil price environments, as ongoing maintenance spending is required to sustain production. As natural gas and oil prices reach higher levels, demand for the Companys production related services generally increases as its customers engage in more well servicing activities relating to existing wells to maintain or increase natural gas and oil production from those wells. Because some of the Companys services are required to support drilling activities, the Company is subject to changes in capital spending by its customers as natural gas and oil prices increase or decrease. The Company showed improvement in its revenues during 2004 and 2005 over 2003 and 2002 as a result of the increased natural gas and oil drilling and workover activity during those years. As a result of the Bobcat acquisition, which represents the Companys introduction into the well intervention services business, the Company currently operates in two business segments: wireline services and well intervention services. The Companys wireline segment includes the business conducted by Warrior Energy prior to the Bobcat acquisition, and its well intervention segment includes the business conducted by Bobcat post acquisition. Revenues The majority of the Companys revenues are generated from major and large independent natural gas and oil companies. The primary factor influencing demand for the Companys services by those customers is their level of drilling and workover activity, which, in turn, depends primarily on the availability of drilling and workover prospects and current and anticipated future natural gas and oil commodity prices and production depletion rates. 26 Back to Contents The Companys services are generally provided at a price based on bids submitted which in turn are based on the Companys current pricing, equipment and crew availability and customer location and the nature of the service to be provided. These services are routinely provided to the Companys customers and are subject to the customers time schedule, weather conditions, availability of the Companys personnel and complexity of the operation. The Companys wireline services generally take one to three days to perform while its well intervention services generally take two weeks or longer to perform. Service revenues are recognized at the time services are performed. The Company generally charges for its wireline services on a per well entry basis and its well intervention services on a day rate basis. Depending on the specific service, a per well entry or day rate may include one or more of these components: (1) a set up charge, (2) an hourly service rate based on equipment and labor, (3) an equipment rental charge, (4) a consumables charge and (5) a mileage and fuel charge. The Company determines the rates charged through a competitive bid process on a job by job basis or, for larger customers, the Company may negotiate on an annual basis. Typically, work is performed on a call out basis, whereby the customer requests services on a job specific basis, but does not guarantee work levels beyond the specific job bid. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, approximately 49.9% and 57.9%, respectively, of the Companys revenues were derived from onshore activities and approximately 50.1% and 42.1%, respectively, of the Companys revenues were derived from offshore activities. Cost and Expenses Operating Costs. The Companys operating costs are comprised primarily of labor expenses, repair and maintenance, material and fuel and insurance. In a competitive labor market in the industry, it is possible that the Company will have to raise wage rates to attract workers and retain or expand its current work force. The Company believes it will be able to increase service rates to its customers to compensate for wage rate increases. The Company also incurs costs to employ personnel to sell and supervise its services and perform maintenance on its fleet. These costs are not directly tied to the Companys level of business activity. Because the Company seeks to retain its experienced and well qualified employees during cyclical downturns in its business, and is required to pay severance under employment agreements that cover a portion of its workforce, the Company expects labor expenses to increase as a percentage of revenues during future cyclical downturns. Repair and maintenance is performed by the Companys crews, company maintenance personnel and outside service providers. Increases in the Companys material and fuel costs are frequently passed on to its customers. However, due to the timing of the Companys marketing and bidding cycles, there is generally a delay of several weeks or months from the time that it incurs an actual price increase until the time that the Company can pass on that increase to its customers. Insurance is generally a fixed cost regardless of utilization and relates to the number of rigs, trucks, skids, snubbing units and other equipment in the Companys fleet, employee payroll and safety record. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. The Companys selling, general and administrative expenses include administrative, marketing, employee compensation and related benefits, office and lease expenses, insurance costs and professional fees, as well as other costs and expenses not directly related to field operations. The Companys management regularly evaluates the level of the Companys general and administrative expenses in relation to its revenue because these expenses have a direct impact on the Companys profitability. The Company expects to incur additional expense in future periods relating to incentive compensation paid to employees. Success Bonus and Change of Control Payments. The Company expects to make change of control and success bonus payments in the aggregate amount of $2.6 million to certain key employees immediately prior to or concurrently with the closing of the Companys proposed public offering of shares of its common stock. 27 Back to Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest associated with the Companys revolving line of credit, term loan, convertible notes and other debt as described in the notes to the Companys financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. As a result of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company expects that, when the proposed offering is completed and the net proceeds are applied to the intended uses, its debt levels will be substantially lower than their current levels which resulted from the acquisition of Bobcat on December 16, 2005. The Company also expects that its effective borrowing rate will be substantially less than that associated with the outstanding convertible subordinated debt intended to be converted to equity in connection with the proposed public offering. Accordingly, subsequent to the proposed public offering, interest expense is expected to be substantially lower than the levels of interest expense following the Companys acquisition of Bobcat. There can be no assurance that the proposed public offering will be completed. Interest income primarily consists of interest earned on the Companys cash balances. Depreciation Expense. The Companys depreciation expense is based on estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to capitalized costs, useful lives and salvage values of the Companys assets. The Company generally computes depreciation using the straight line method. Income Taxes. At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $29.2 million of net operating losses (NOLs) available to offset future taxable income. These NOLs will be applied to taxable income in 2006 prior to the Companys proposed public offering and will be subject to additional IRS Section 382 limitations subsequent to the Companys proposed public offering. Discontinued Activities. The Company sold its directional drilling division on August 6, 2004 and the operations of that division are reported in the financial statements in this Report as discontinued operations. Results of Operations The following discussion includes the results of operations of Bobcat for the period December 16, 2005 through December 31, 2005. For further information relating to the results of operations of Bobcat prior to the completion of the acquisition through September 30, 2005 and pro forma financial information reflecting the combined results of operations of the Company and Bobcat for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004, see the Companys Amendment No. 1 to its Current Report on Form 8 K filed on February 22, 2006. See also Note 2 to the Notes to Financial Statements For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 included in this Report for the pro forma statements of operations of the Company and Bobcat for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Revenues The Companys total revenues increased by approximately $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 2004. The pricing and utilization of the Companys services improved due to the increase in well maintenance and drilling activity caused by higher natural gas and oil prices. The Company also added eight additional wireline units during the year ended December 31, 2005 as well as approximately $769,000 of revenues from Bobcats operations following the acquisition. Operating Costs The Companys operating costs increased by approximately $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the same period of 2004. Operating costs were 59.0% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 64.1% of revenues for 2004. The decrease in operating costs as a percentage of revenues was primarily the result of the higher utilization and pricing in the year ended December 31, 2005 compared with 2004. Salaries and benefits increased by approximately $4.9 million 28 Back to Contents for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. Total number of employees increased from 313 at December 31, 2004 to approximately 480 at December 31, 2005, including approximately 80 employees from the Bobcat acquisition. The increase in salaries and benefits is primarily due to the increase in the number of employees in 2005 versus 2004. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $154,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 13.1% for the year ended December 31, 2005, from 17.6% in for the same period in 2004 due to relatively constant expenses and increased revenues. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased by approximately $41,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily due to certain assets becoming fully depreciated in the period. Interest Expense Interest expense and amortization of debt discount decreased by approximately $724,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. The decline in interest expense is attributable to the reduction in the Companys senior debt outstanding prior to the Bobcat acquisition. Change of Control Expense Change of control expense of $2.7 million was recognized in 2005 as a result of a change in the general partner of St. James Capital Partners, L.P. which, under the terms of certain key employment contracts, required payments to be made to those employees. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased by approximately $285,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the expensing of transaction expenses associated with a potential transaction which was terminated in August 2005. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was approximately $175,000 in 2005 and $0 in 2004. The Company realized a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004, thereby generating additional NOLs. The Company recorded net income during the year ended December 31, 2005, where NOLs were utilized to offset provision for federal income taxes. The provision for income taxes represents state income tax and alternative minimum tax provisions. A full valuation allowance has been recorded against the net deferred tax asset generated in prior years from net operating losses to be carried forward. Net Income Net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was approximately $8.2 million compared with a net loss of approximately $1.8 million for the same period of 2004. Included in 2004 results was a loss from operations of the discontinued directional drilling segment of approximately $1.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The improved results for the year ended December 31, 2005 over the same period in 2004 was primarily the result of an increase in revenues resulting from an increase in demand for the Companys services. Discontinued Operations The Company sold its directional drilling division business on August 6, 2004 and the operations of this division are reported in the financial statements included in this Report as discontinued operations. The comparisons detailed above reflect the Companys continuing operations. 29 Back to Contents Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Revenues The Companys revenues from continuing operations increased by approximately $7.9 million or 17.3 % to $53.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to revenues from continuing operations of $45.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The pricing and utilization of the Companys services improved due to the increase in well maintenance and drilling activity caused by higher natural gas and oil prices. The Company also averaged three additional wireline units for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Operating Costs Operating costs increased by $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to 2003. This increase was due primarily to the increase in the Companys revenues and the level of the Companys operations in 2004 as compared to 2003. Salaries and benefits increased by approximately $1.8 million for 2004 as compared to 2003. This was due primarily to the Companys increased employee base. Operating costs as a percentage of revenues decreased to 64.1 % in 2004 from 66.6 % in 2003 primarily because of the increased utilization of the Companys assets as well as increases in pricing for the Companys services. The increases in pricing were largely the outgrowth of and were dependent upon the increase in demand for services in the natural gas and oil well services sector. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $209,000 to $9.5 million in 2004. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 17.6 % in 2004 from 20.2 % in 2003, primarily as a result of the increased revenue level generated in 2004 which did not require a corresponding increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased from $4.7 million in 2003 to $5.2 million in 2004, primarily because of the increase in the Companys asset base resulting from capital expenditures in the second half of 2003 and 2004. Interest Expense Interest expense and amortization of debt discount decreased by approximately $531,000 for 2004 as compared to 2003. This was directly related to lower interest rates on outstanding senior debt in 2004 as well as the reduced levels of senior debt outstanding in 2004. Other Income Net gain on sale of fixed assets decreased in 2004 to a net gain of approximately $53,000 from an approximate $239,000 net gain in 2003. Other income decreased by approximately $98,000 in 2004. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $0 in 2004 and 2003. A full valuation allowance has been recorded against the net deferred tax assets generated each year from the net operating losses to be carried forward. Net Loss Net loss for 2004 was $1.8 million, compared with a net loss of $5.5 million in 2003. The improvement in the Companys results in 2004 over 2003 was primarily attributable to the increased demand for the Companys services in 2004 primarily resulting from the improved commodities prices in 2004 and offset by the impairment recorded of $1.4 million resulting from the sale of the directional assets. 30 Back to Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary liquidity needs are to fund capital expenditures, such as expanding its wireline and well intervention services, geographic expansion, acquiring and upgrading trucks, skids and snubbing units, the addition of complementary service lines and funding general working capital needs. In addition, the Company needs capital to fund strategic business acquisitions. The Companys primary sources of funds have historically been cash flow from operations, proceeds from borrowings under bank credit facilities and the issuance of debt. Upon completion of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company anticipates that it will rely on cash generated from operations, borrowings under its revolving credit facility and possible debt and equity offerings to satisfy its liquidity needs. The Company believes that with the current and anticipated operating environment of the natural gas and oil industry, it will be able to meet its liquidity requirements for the remainder of 2006. In addition to funding operating expenses, cash requirements for 2006 are expected to be comprised mainly of amortization payments on indebtedness and funding capital improvements. The Companys planned growth initiatives are expected to require capital expenditures of in excess of $100 million over the next three years. The Companys ability to fund planned capital expenditures and to make acquisitions will depend upon its future operating performance, and more broadly, on the availability of equity and debt financing, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the Companys industry, and general financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond the Companys control. Pursuant to employment contracts, the Company expects to make success bonus payments to certain key employees immediately prior to or concurrently with the closing of its proposed public offering in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.6 million of which approximately $1.5 million is accrued as of December 31, 2005. The Companys outstanding indebtedness includes primarily senior indebtedness aggregating approximately $55.2 million at December 31, 2005, other indebtedness of approximately $1.2 million and approximately $40.1 million (including approximately $18.2 million of accrued interest) owing primarily to the St. James Partnerships as well as other holders of subordinated notes. Cash provided by the Companys operating activities was approximately $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to cash provided of approximately $3.6 million for the same period in 2004 The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due mainly as a result in the increase in demand for the Companys services. During the year ended December 31, 2005, investing activities used cash of approximately $53.2 million for the acquisition of Bobcat and $8.3 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as compared to $7.5 million for the same period in 2004, more than offset by $10.4 million in proceeds from the sale of the Multishot division. During the year ended December 31, 2005, financing activities used cash of approximately $11.6 million for principal payments on debt and approximately $2.5 million for debt issuance costs offset by proceeds from bank and other borrowings and net draws on working capital revolving loans of approximately $56.2. In 2004, financing activities used cash of approximately $23.0 million for principal payments on debt and net payments on working capital revolving loans and other borrowings and debt issuance costs of approximately $378,000 offset by proceeds from bank and other borrowings of approximately $13.6 million. 31 Back to Contents Cash provided by the Companys operating activities was approximately $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to cash provided by operating activities of $10.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was mainly a result of the change in the Companys prepaid assets associated with the financing of insurance premiums, the assignment of current assets and current liabilities in connection with the sale of the directional drilling division and the timing of other current assets and liabilities. Investing activities used cash of approximately $7.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and was offset by proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations and fixed assets of $10.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2003, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment used cash of $3.1 million offset by proceeds of $685,000 from the sale of fixed assets. Financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2004 provided cash of $13.6 million offset by principal payments on long term notes and the Companys working capital revolving loan of $23.0 million and debt issuance costs of approximately $378,000. Financing activities provided cash of $5.4 million from borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2003 offset by principal payments on long term notes and the Companys working capital revolving loan of $10.3 million and debt issuance costs of approximately $48,000. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company expended approximately $56.3 million for the acquisition of Bobcat financed under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and approximately $961,000 for other property, plant and equipment financed under notes payable. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended approximately $841,000 for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment financed under notes payable. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $3.3 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment financed under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and notes payable. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2005 with respect to the Companys known contractual obligations of the types specified below: Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Total Prior to December 31, 2006 January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008 January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2011 January 1, 2012 and thereafter Long Term Debt(1) $ 78,343,883 $ 5,568,880 $ 8,729,771 $ 64,045,232 Capital Leases Purchase Obligations Change of Control Payment $ 1,535,388 $ 1,535,388 Other Long term Liabilities (1) Does not reflect planned use of proceeds from the Companys proposed public offering. 32 Back to Contents Description of the Companys Indebtedness Senior Secured Credit Agreement On December 16, 2005, the Company entered into the Senior Secured Credit Agreement with GECC, providing for a term loan and revolving and capital expenditure credit facilities in an aggregate amount of $50.0 million. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement amended, restated and modified the credit agreement the Company entered into with GECC as of September 14, 2001 and as it was amended and restated on November 14, 2004, including the amendments thereto. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement includes: a revolving credit facility of up to $15.0 million, but not exceeding a borrowing base of 85% of the book value of eligible accounts receivable, less any reserves GECC may establish from time to time, a term loan of $30.0 million, and a one year capital expenditure loan facility of up to $5.0 million, but not exceeding the lesser of 80% of the hard costs of eligible capital equipment and 75% of the forced liquidation value of eligible capital equipment, subject to adjustment by GECC. Eligible accounts receivable are accounts in which the Company has an interest excluding, among other items and, subject to certain exceptions, debtors accounts outstanding that are not paid within the earlier of 60 days past the due date or 90 days following the original invoice date, accounts of debtors that have suspended business or commenced various insolvency proceedings and accounts to the extent the account exceeds the credit limit established by GECC in its reasonable credit judgment. GECC has the right to establish, modify and eliminate reserves against eligible accounts receivable from time to time in its reasonable judgment. GECCs agreement to make revolving loans expires on December 16, 2008 and its agreement to make capital expenditure loans expires on December 16, 2006, unless earlier terminated under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. Interest Rates. Initially, as of the closing, the annual interest rate on borrowings under the revolving loan facility is 0.75% above the index rate, and the annual interest rate on borrowings under the term loan and capital expenditure loan facility is 2.25% above the index rate. The index rate is a floating rate equal to the higher of (i) the rate publicly quoted from time to time by the Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, or (ii) the average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions among members of the Federal Reserve System plus 0.5%. The interest rate margin above the index rate may be adjusted from time to time on a quarterly basis based on the Companys ratio of its funded debt to EBITDA for the trailing twelve months prior to the determination. Subject to the absence of an event of default and fulfillment of certain other conditions, the Company can elect to borrow or convert any loan and pay the annual interest at the LIBOR rate plus applicable margins of 2.25% on the revolving loan and 3.75% on the term loan and capital expenditure loan. If an event of default in the nature of a failure to make any payment of principal of, interest on or fees owing in respect to loans when due and payable or the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings involving the Company has occurred, the annual interest rate is increased by 2% and, if any other default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, GECC may elect to increase the interest rate by that amount. Collateral. Advances under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are collateralized by a senior lien against substantially all of the Companys assets. Use of Proceeds. Initial borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement advanced on December 16, 2005 were $1.3 million borrowed under the revolving loan and $30.0 million under the term loan. No 33 Back to Contents borrowings were made under the capital expenditure loan facility. The proceeds of the term loan were used to pay a portion of the Bobcat acquisition purchase price, related fees and expenses and repayment of substantially all Bobcat indebtedness, and approximately $2.1 million was placed in escrow for the repayment of principal and accrued interest on subordinated secured indebtedness and approximately $2.8 million was used for general corporate purposes. The outstanding balance of approximately $6.3 million under the Companys previous credit agreement with GECC was paid out of the Companys existing cash. Maturity of Loans. Borrowings under the revolving loan are able to be repaid and re borrowed from time to time for working capital and general corporate needs, subject to the Companys continuing compliance with the terms of the agreement. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving loan are due and payable on December 16, 2008. The term loan is to be repaid in 12 consecutive quarterly installments of $1.1 million commencing January 1, 2006 with a final installment of $16.8 million due and payable on January 1, 2009. The capital expenditure loan is to be repaid in eight consecutive quarterly installments with each quarterly installment equal to 1/20th of the borrowings funded prior to the expiration of the one year term of the facility and with a final installment in the amount of the remaining principal balance due on December 16, 2008. Mandatory and Voluntary Prepayments. Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are subject to certain mandatory pre payments including, among other requirements, pre payment out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering. The Company must apply the net proceeds from any sale of its stock, other than on exercise of existing warrants and conversion rights, occurring before December 31, 2006 to the prepayment of loans. Such cash proceeds, after deduction of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs the Company incurs are to be applied to the prepayment of (i) loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement, (ii) loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement, and (iii) to prepay or redeem all the Companys outstanding subordinated notes and shares of its common stock owned by St. James Capital Partners, L.P., SJMB, L.P. and other holders of the Companys subordinated secured notes as of December 16, 2005, the shares of the Companys common stock issued in exchange for warrants, subordinated notes and other convertible securities pursuant to the recapitalization agreements the Company entered into in October 2005, a fee in the amount of $274,000 owing to SJMB, L.P. and Change of Control payments in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.6 million the Company is required to make under the terms of employment agreements with certain of the Companys employees, as the term Change of Control is defined in those agreements (herein, amounts to be paid under this subsection (iii) are referred to as Junior Capital), in the following manner: (A) 100% of the first $50.0 million in net proceeds received are to be applied to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital; (B) net proceeds in excess of $50.0 million and up to $75.0 million are to be allocated 40% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 30% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 30% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement; (C) net proceeds in excess of $75.0 million and up to $100.0 million are to be allocated 60% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 20% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 20% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement; and (D) net proceeds in excess of $100.0 million are to be allocated 80% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 10% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 10% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement. 34 Back to Contents To the extent the Junior Capital is paid or repurchased in full under the foregoing provisions prior to the prepayment in full of loans outstanding under the Companys Credit Agreements, the remaining net proceeds are to be allocated 50% to loans outstanding under the Companys Credit Agreements. If any event of default has occurred under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and is continuing, and the Company has been notified in writing of such event of default (or the Company has been notified in writing of the equivalent event of default under the Second Lien Credit Agreement), at the time the Company receives the net proceeds, 100% of such net proceeds are to be allocated to the loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement, without application of any portion thereof to Junior Capital or loans under the Second Lien Credit Agreement. The Company has proposed to GECC that the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement be amended to provide that 100% of the net proceeds realized from its proposed public offering that is to be applied to the repayment of indebtedness owing to GECC be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and 0 % be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is awaiting a definitive response from GECC regarding this proposal. If the Company issues any shares of common stock, other than as described above, or any debt at any time, the Company is required to prepay the loans outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement in an amount equal to all such proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs. The Company is also required to prepay annually, commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, loans and other outstanding obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement in an amount equal to 75% of the Companys excess cash flow for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Excess cash flow is defined, with respect to any fiscal year, as the Companys net income plus depreciation, amortization and interest expense, to the extent deducted in determining net income, minus capital expenditures, minus interest expense paid or accrued and scheduled principal payments paid or payable, plus or minus, extraordinary gains or losses which are cash items not included in net income, plus taxes deducted in determining net income to the extent not paid in cash. Any mandatory prepayments made as provided above are to be applied substantially as follows: first, to any fees then due and payable to GECC, second, to interest then due and payable on the term loan and capital expenditure loan, pro rata between the term loan and capital expenditure loan, third, to prepay the scheduled principal installments on the term loan and capital expenditure loan, allocated pro rata between the term loan and capital expenditure loan, and applied to principal installments in inverse order of maturity, until the term loan and capital expenditure loan have been prepaid in full; fourth, to interest then due and payable on the revolving loan; and fifth, to the principal balance of the revolving loan until the same shall have been paid in full. The revolving loan is permanently reduced by the amount of any such prepayments. The Company may at any time prepay all or part of the term loan or capital expenditure loan, permanently reduce or terminate the capital expenditure commitment, and permanently reduce but not terminate the revolving loan commitment provided such prepayments or reductions are in the minimum amount of $500,000 and integral multiples of $250,000, subject to the payment of certain pre payment fees declining from 1.0% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the first year, 0.5% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the second year, and 0.25% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the third year of the term of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is required to use, subject to certain exceptions, the net proceeds from the sale of any assets or the stock of any subsidiary to prepay all borrowings under the facilities. The Company is required to repay any borrowings in excess of the applicable borrowing availability, including borrowings under the term loan in excess of 70% of the forced liquidation value of eligible term loan equipment. The forced liquidation value 35 Back to Contents of the eligible term loan equipment is established by appraisal conducted from time to time but not more than twice per year. Conditions to Advances. Future advances are subject to the continuing accuracy of the Companys representations and warranties as of such date (other than those relating expressly to an earlier date), the absence of any event or circumstance constituting a material adverse effect, as defined, the absence of any default or event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, and the borrowings not exceeding the applicable borrowing availability under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, after giving effect to such advance. A material adverse effect is defined to include a material adverse effect on the Companys business, assets, operations, prospects or financial or other condition, on the Companys ability to pay any of the loans under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, on the collateral or on lenders liens or rights and remedies under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. An event constituting a material adverse effect also includes a decline in the Average Rig Count (excluding Canada and international rigs) published by Baker Hughes, Inc. falling below 800 for 12 consecutive weeks. Further conditions to each advance under the capital expenditure facility require the delivery of evidence that the advance is in compliance with the conditions of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement with respect to amounts that may be borrowed to finance capital expenditures. Affirmative and Negative Covenants. Under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, the Company is obligated to maintain compliance with a number of affirmative and negative covenants. Affirmative covenants the Company must comply with include requirements to maintain the Companys corporate existence and continue the conduct of the Companys business substantially as conducted in December 2005, promptly pay all taxes and governmental assessments and levies, maintain the Companys corporate books and records, maintain insurance in form and amounts and with insurers reasonably acceptable to GECC, comply with applicable laws and regulations, maintain key man life insurance on the life of William L. Jenkins, provide supplemental disclosure to the lenders, refrain from violating the intellectual property of others, conduct the Companys operations in compliance with environmental laws, provide a mortgage or deed of trust to the lenders granting a first lien on the Companys real estate upon the request of the lenders, and provide certificates of title on newly acquired equipment with the lenders lien noted. Negative covenants the Company may not violate include, among others and subject to limitations and exceptions, (i) forming or acquiring a subsidiary, (ii) merging with, acquiring all or substantially all the assets or stock of, or otherwise combining with or acquiring, another person, (iii) making an investment in or loan to another person, subject to certain exceptions for specified high grade investments so long as there are no revolving loans outstanding, (iv) incurring any indebtedness other than specified permitted indebtedness, (v) entering into any transaction with an affiliate except in the ordinary course of the Companys business and on fair and reasonable terms no less favorable than would be obtained in a comparable arms length transaction with a non affiliated person, (vi) making loans to its employees in amounts exceeding $50,000 individually and $250,000 in the aggregate, (vii) issuing any shares of the Companys common stock if any of its stock or the stock of a subsidiary is pledged to GECC, making any change in its business objectives or operations that could adversely affect repayment of the loans or could reasonably be expected to have or result in a material adverse effect, making any change in its capital structure, including the issuance of any stock, warrants or convertible securities or any revision in the terms of outstanding stock except for permitted payments to holders of subordinated debt and options granted under an existing or future incentive option plan, or amending its charter or by laws in a manner that would adversely affect its duty or ability to repay the indebtedness, or engaging in any business other than that engaged in by the Company on December 16, 2005; (viii) creating or permitting to exist any liens on its properties or assets, with the exception of (x) those granted to the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement or in existence on the date of making the loan and permitted re financings, extensions and renewals of such liens provided the indebtedness secured is not increased and the lien does not attach to any additional property, or (y) liens created after December 16, 2005 by conditional sale or other title retention agreements or in connection with purchase money indebtedness with respect to equipment and 36 Back to Contents fixtures acquired in the ordinary course of business involving the incurrence of an aggregate amount of purchase money indebtedness and capital lease obligations of not more than $2.0 million outstanding at any one time or (z) liens securing the indebtedness under the Second Lien Credit Agreement, (xi) selling any of its properties or other assets, including the stock of any subsidiary, except inventory in the ordinary course of business, obsolete or unused equipment or fixtures with an appraised value not exceeding $200,000 per transaction and $500,000 per year, and other equipment and fixtures with a book value not exceeding $200,000 per transaction and $500,000 per year, (xii) breaching or failing to comply with the various financial covenants in the credit agreement, (xiii) releasing any hazardous material that would violate environmental laws or adversely impact the value of any collateral; (xiv) engaging in a sale leaseback, synthetic lease or similar transaction, (xv) making any restricted payments, including payment of dividends, stock or warrant redemptions, repaying subordinated notes, except as otherwise permitted under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, rescission of the sale of outstanding stock, subject to certain exceptions including, among others, permitted prepayments or redemptions of Junior Capital using the net proceeds from a public offering of its common stock, payment of reasonable and customary fees to its non employee directors, reimbursement of the reasonable expenses of St. James Capital Corp., St. James Capital Partners, L.P., SJMB, LP, and SJMB, LLC in an amount not to exceed $60,000 per year, payment of a $274,000 fee to SJMB, L.P. not later than December 31, 2006 or the date the Company complete its first public offering of common stock after December 16, 2005, and Change of Control payments (as Change of Control is defined in the employment agreements with the parties to receive the payments) on and after December 16, 2005 but before December 31, 2005 in the amount of approximately $1.1 million, and, in connection with in a contemplated public offering of shares of its common stock, in an aggregate amount not to exceed approximately $2.7 million, (xvi) purchasing any real estate in excess of $250,000, (xvii) engaging in any speculative hedging transactions; (xviii) amending or changing the terms of its subordinated debt, (xix) changing or amending the Second Lien Credit Agreement, or (xx) changing or amending the Bobcat acquisition agreement. The financial covenants prohibit the Company from making capital expenditures in any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 in an aggregate amount exceeding $6.5 million (excluding amounts financed under its capital expenditure loan facility), plus in any subsequent period the amount by which $6.5 million exceeds the amount of capital expenditures expended in the prior period. Commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006, the Company is required to have at the end of each fiscal quarter and for the 12 month period then ended, a ratio of (a) EBITDA minus capital expenditures paid in cash during such period, excluding capital expenditures financed under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, minus income taxes paid in cash during such period to (b) fixed charges including, with certain exceptions, the total of principal and interest payments during such period, of not less than 1.5:1.0. For the purpose of calculating the ratio for the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, EBITDA and fixed charges are to be measured for the period commencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the last day of such fiscal quarter. The Company is required to have, at the end of each fiscal month, a ratio of funded debt to EBITDA as of the last day of such fiscal month and for the 12 month period then ended of not more than the following: 2.25:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2006 through March 31, 2006; 2.25:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on April 30, 2006 through June 30, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on July 31, 2006 through September 30, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on October 30, 2006 through December 31, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2007 through March 31, 2007; and 1.75:1.00 for each fiscal month ending thereafter. The Company is required to have, at the end of each fiscal month, EBITDA for the 12 month period then ended of not less than the following: 37 Back to Contents $33,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2006 through March 31, 2006; $33,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on April 30, 2006 through June 30, 2006; $34,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on July 31, 2006 through September 30, 2006; $34,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on October 30, 2006 through December 31, 2006; and $35,000,000 for each fiscal month ending thereafter. Events of Default. Events of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement include, among others and subject to certain limitations, (a) the failure to make any payment of principal, interest, or fees when due and payable or to pay or reimburse GECC for any expense reimbursable under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement within ten days of demand for payment, (b) the failure to perform the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement relating to use of proceeds, maintenance of a cash management system, maintenance of insurance, delivery of certificates of title for equipment, delivery of certain post closing documents, and maintenance of compliance with the Senior Secured Credit Agreements negative covenants, (c) the failure to deliver to the lenders monthly un audited, quarterly un audited and annual audited financial statements, an annual operating plan, and other reports, certificates and information as required by the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, (d) the failure to perform any other provision of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement (other than those set forth in (b) above) which nonperformance remains un remedied for 20 days or more, (e) a default or breach under any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party beyond any grace period that involves the failure to pay in excess of $250,000 or causes or permits to cause indebtedness in excess of $250,000 to become due prior to its stated maturity, (f) any information in a borrowing base certificate or any representation or warranty or certificate or in any written statement report, or financial statement delivered to GECC being untrue or incorrect in any material respect, (g) a change of control, as defined, of the Company, (h) the occurrence of an event having a material adverse effect, (i) the initiation of insolvency, bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, (j) any final judgment for the payment of money in excess of $250,000 is outstanding against the Company and is not within thirty days discharged, stayed or bonded pending appeal, (k) any material provision of or lien under any document relating to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement ceases to be valid, (l) the attachment, seizure or levy upon of the Companys assets which continues for 30 days or more, and (m) William Jenkins ceases to serve as the Companys chief executive officer, unless otherwise agreed by GECC. Upon the occurrence of a default, which is defined as any event that with the passage of time or notice or both would, unless waived or cured, become an event of default, or event of default, the lenders may discontinue making revolving loans and capital expenditure loans to the Company and increase the interest rate on all loans. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders may terminate the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, declare all indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement due and payable, and exercise any of their rights under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement which includes the ability to foreclose on the Companys assets. In the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, all borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are immediately due and payable. Second Lien Credit Agreement The Term Loan. On December 16, 2005, the Company entered into the Second Lien Credit Agreement with GECC, providing for a term loan $25.0 million. Interest Rate. The annual interest rate on borrowings under the term loan is 6.0% above the index rate. The index rate is a floating rate equal to the higher of (i) the rate publicly quoted from time to time by the Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, or (ii) the average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions among members of the Federal Reserve System plus 0.5%. Subject to the absence of an event of default and fulfillment of certain other conditions, the Company can elect to borrow or convert any loan and pay the annual interest at the LIBOR rate plus a margin of 7.5%. If an event of default in the nature of a failure to make any payment of principal of, interest on or fees owing in respect to loans when due and payable or the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings involving the Company has occurred, the annual interest 38 Back to Contents rate is increased by 2% and, if any other default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, GECC may elect to increase the interest rate by that amount. Collateral. The loan under the Second Lien Credit Agreement is collateralized by a junior lien against substantially all of the Companys assets, subordinate to the lien under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. Use of Proceeds. Initial borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement advanced on December 16, 2005 of $25.0 million were used to pay a portion of the Bobcat acquisition purchase price. Maturity of Loan. Outstanding borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are due and payable on March 16, 2009, unless previously repaid. Mandatory and Voluntary Prepayments. Borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are subject to certain mandatory pre payments including, among other requirements, pre payment out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering in a manner substantially identical to the mandatory repayment provisions out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. As is described above, the Company has proposed to GECC that the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement be amended to provide that 100% of the net proceeds realized from its proposed public offering that is to be applied to the repayment of indebtedness owing to GECC be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and 0 % be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is awaiting a definitive response from GECC regarding this proposal. If the Company issues any shares of common stock, other than as described above in a public offering of the Companys securities, or any debt at any time, the Company is required to prepay the loans outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement in an amount equal to all such proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs. Any mandatory prepayments made as provided above are to be applied substantially as follows: first, to any fees then due and payable to GECC, second, to interest then due and payable on the loan and, third, to prepay the principal of the loan. The Company may at any time prepay all or part of the loan or capital expenditure loan, subject to the payment of certain pre payment fees declining from 2.0% in during the first year, 1.0% during the second year, and 0.5% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the third year of the term of the Second Lien Credit Agreement. The Company is required to use, subject to certain exceptions, the net proceeds from the sale of any assets or the stock of any subsidiary to prepay all borrowings under the facilities. Closing Conditions. Initial borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement were subject to the fulfillment at or before the closing of closing conditions substantially identical to the conditions to be fulfilled in connection with the closing under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. Affirmative and Negative Covenants. Under the Second Lien Credit Agreement, the Company is obligated to maintain compliance with a number of affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that are substantially identical to the covenants the Company is obligated to comply with under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. Events of Default. Events of default under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are substantially identical to events of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. 39 Back to Contents Credit Agreements General There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to remain in compliance with the financial and other covenants of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement or be able to obtain such amendments, consents or waivers with respect to potential violations of these covenants when required. The Companys inability to do so may result in it being placed in violation of those financial and other covenants. The Company can make no assurances that it will remain in compliance with the Companys debt covenants or generate sufficient cash flows to service its debt and fund operations. Failure to comply with these debt covenants and or generate sufficient cash flow from operations could significantly impair its liquidity position and could result in GECC exercising mandatory prepayment options under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement. Should the Company be unable to borrow funds under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement or Second Lien Credit Agreement if prepayment of those borrowings were required, the Company can make no assurances that alternative funding could be obtained. Reference is made to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement, filed as exhibits to the Companys Current Report on Form 8 K for December 16, 2005 for a complete statement of the terms and conditions. Subordinated Secured Indebtedness Note Extensions In connection with the Company entering into the GECC refinancing in November 2004, the Company agreed with the holders of its outstanding subordinated secured notes to extend the maturity date of the notes from December 31, 2004 to February 13 and February 14, 2008 on $23.0 million of the total $23.9 million principal amount of the notes then outstanding. The remainder of the outstanding principal was repaid. Concurrently with the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement, the maturity date of approximately $21.9 million principal amount of the Companys outstanding subordinated secured promissory notes was extended to June 15, 2009 and $2.1 million of such subordinated secured notes, including accrued interest, was repaid. The notes bear interest at 15% per annum and are convertible into shares of the Companys common stock at a conversion price of $7.50 per share, subject to an anti dilution adjustment for certain issuances of securities by the Company at prices per share of common stock less than the conversion price then in effect, in which event the conversion price is reduced to the lower price at which the shares were issued. As a condition to extend the maturity date of the notes in connection with the GECC refinancing in November 2004, the Company extended the expiration date of the Companys 6.6 million outstanding common stock purchase warrants to December 31, 2009. Substantially all of the Companys assets are pledged as collateral for the indebtedness outstanding under the subordinated secured notes. All of the debt and interest owed under the subordinated secured notes is subordinated to the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and cannot be repaid until all the amounts owed pursuant to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement mature or have been repaid. Following completion of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company does not expect to have any subordinated secured notes outstanding. Other Indebtedness. In December 2004, the Company incurred indebtedness of approximately $2.3 million in connection with financing the payment of annual insurance premiums in that amount. The indebtedness was payable in monthly installments that ended in September 2005. Recapitalization In October 2005, the Company initiated a series of steps undertaken for the purpose of recapitalizing the Company through the elimination of the substantial amount of derivative securities it has outstanding, among other steps intended to be undertaken. These derivative securities include common stock purchase 40 Back to Contents warrants to purchase 7,076,119 shares of the Companys common stock and $35,019,173 of principal amount and accrued interest, as of December 31, 2005, of its outstanding convertible subordinated notes which, as of that date, are convertible at a conversion price of $7.50 per share into an aggregate of 4,669,223 shares of the Companys common stock. On October 6, 2005, the Company entered into agreements with the holders of 5,269,369 of the 7,076,119 warrants outstanding to exchange those warrants for 1,756,456 shares of the Companys common stock. Of the 5,269,369 warrants, an aggregate of 4,075,528 are held by the St. James Partnerships, and 1,193,841 were held by the Underbrink Family Entities, which include Mr. Charles E. Underbrink. Mr. Underbrink is one of the Companys directors and is the Chairman of the general partner of SJMB, L.P. and, in October 2005, was the Chairman of the general partner of St. James Capital Partners, L.P. The exchange of warrants for shares of the Companys common stock by the Underbrink Family Entities was completed on October 6, 2005 resulting in the issuance of 397,947 shares, and the warrants to purchase 4,075,527 shares held by the St. James Partnerships are to be repurchased in connection with the Companys proposed public offering. In the event the warrants to purchase 4,075,527 shares held by the St. James Partnerships have not been purchased by the Company by June 30, 2006, the warrants will be converted into 1,358,509 shares of common stock. On October 7, 2005, the Company commenced an offer to exchange shares of its common stock for its remaining outstanding 1,806,750 common stock purchase warrants. The Company offered to exchange one share of the Companys common stock for each three warrants. Each warrant represents the right to purchase one share of the Companys common stock at an exercise price of $7.50 per share. The offer to exchange shares of the Companys common stock for warrants expired on November 14, 2005, and the Company issued 503,167 shares of its common stock in exchange for 1,509,500 common stock purchase warrants. The agreements with the St. James Partnerships and Underbrink Family Entities provide that such persons will convert an aggregate of $20,277,374 of principal and all accrued interest (which amounted to $16,734,434 through December 31, 2005) on the Companys outstanding convertible subordinated notes into shares of the Companys common stock and, provided the price they are to receive is not less than $7.50 per share, sell those shares to the Company, along with the shares issued in exchange for their warrants, the shares issued on conversion of notes and accrued interest in November 2005 and an additional 501,748 shares held by SJMB, L.P., at the closing time of the Companys proposed public offering. The purchase price paid by the Company for such shares will be the price per share it receives in the public offering less commissions and expenses of the underwriters in the offering. In addition, under the terms of a Registration Rights Agreement, the holders of $3,041,361 principal amount and accrued interest (as of December 31, 2005) on outstanding convertible subordinated notes have the right to have included 405,515 shares issuable on conversion of the principal and interest on the notes, as well as the shares of the Companys common stock issued in exchange for their warrants, in the registration statement relating to the Companys proposed public offering. If the managing underwriter concludes that the amount of shares included in the registration statement for the account of selling stockholders must be reduced, the Companys Recapitalization Agreements with the Underbrink Family Entities and the St. James Partnerships provide that the first shares to be cut back out of the number of shares to be sold and required to be purchased by the Company out of the net proceeds of its proposed public offering, are the shares held by the Underbrink Family Entities (including Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and any other shares held). If the managing underwriter is of the view that a larger cutback is to be made in the number of shares included in the proposed public offering for the account of selling stockholders, the second classification of shares to be cut back out of shares required to be purchased by the Company out of the net proceeds of the Companys proposed public offering will be the 501,748 shares held by SJMB, L.P. Thereafter, if the managing underwriter is of the view that a larger cutback is to be made in the number of shares included for the account of selling stockholders, the Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and Warrants held by the St. James Partnerships to 41 Back to Contents be purchased by the Company at the closing of the proposed public offering will be cut back pro rata based on the number of Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and Warrants proposed to be sold collectively by the St. James Partnerships. For these purposes and the pro rata calculations required, each three Warrants would be treated as the equivalent of one Exchange Share and the first of the securities to be cut back from purchase by the Company from the St. James Partnerships would be the Conversion Shares and the last to be cut back would be the Warrants. Other Matters Litigation involving the St. James Partnerships, their general partners and Charles E. Underbrink The St. James Partnerships, their general partners and Charles E. Underbrink, who is one of the Companys directors and a director of one of the general partners of the St. James Partnerships, were added as defendants in an amended complaint filed in March 2005 in Texas by two of the limited partners of the St. James Partnerships. The action was originally instituted in December 2004 against the auditors of the St. James Partnerships. The plaintiffs brought the action as a class action on behalf of all the limited partners of the St. James Partnerships and are seeking class action certification. No claim has been asserted against the Company and the Company is not a defendant in the action. However, the complaint and the amended complaint in the action contain allegations that the Company participated with Mr. Underbrink in actions the plaintiffs allege were fraudulent and constituted securities violations. The Company has not concluded that it is probable that a claim will be asserted against it and it does not believe that if a claim is asserted that there is a reasonable possibility that the outcome would be unfavorable to the Company or that any resulting liability would be material to its financial condition. In the Companys view, the allegations in the complaint and amended complaint relating to it are baseless, without factual foundation and untrue. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements On December 21, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Staff Position (FSP) FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, was issued. FSP FAS 109 1 clarifies that this tax deduction should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with Statement 109. As such, the special deduction has no effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at the date of enactment. Rather, the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction is claimed on the Companys tax return beginning in 2005. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)). This Statement requires that the costs of employee share based payments be measured at fair value on the awards grant date using an option pricing model and recognized in the financial statements over the requisite service period. This Statement does not change the accounting for stock ownership plans, which are subject to American Institute of Certified Public Accountants SOP 93 6, Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans. Statement 123(R) supersedes Opinion 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and its related interpretations, and eliminates the alternative to use Opinion 25s intrinsic value method of accounting, which the Company is currently using. Certain stock awards may be considered liabilities instead of equity components under SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) allows for two alternative transition methods. The first method is the modified prospective application whereby compensation cost for the portion of awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered that are outstanding as of the adoption date will be recognized over the remaining service period. The compensation cost for that portion of awards will be based on the grant date fair value of those awards as calculated for pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123, as originally issued. All new awards and awards that are modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the adoption date will be accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). The second method is the modified retrospective application, which requires that the Company restate prior period financial statements. The modified 42 Back to Contents retrospective application may be applied either to all prior periods or only to prior interim periods in the year of adoption of this statement. The Company adopted the modified prospective application method on January 1, 2006 and does not expect a material impact on its financial statements. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, which is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The amendments made by SFAS No. 151 will improve financial reporting by clarifying that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges and by requiring the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The adoption of Statement 151 did not have a significant effect on the Companys financial statements. In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46(R)), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51. The primary objectives of FIN 46R are to provide guidance on the identification of entities for which control is achieved through means other than through voting rights (variable interest entities or VIEs) and how to determine if a business enterprise should consolidate the VIEs. This new model for consolidation applies to an entity for which either: the equity investors (if any) do not have a controlling financial interest; or the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance the entitys activities without receiving additional subordinated financial support from other parties. In addition, FIN 46(R) requires that all enterprises with a significant variable interest in a VIE make additional disclosures regarding their relationship with the VIE. The interpretation requires public entities to apply FIN 46(R) to all entities that are considered Special Purpose Entities in practice and under the FASB literature that was applied before the issuance of FIN 46(R). The adoption of FIN 46R had no effect on the Companys financial statements. Inflation. The Companys revenues have been and are expected to continue to be affected by fluctuations in the prices for natural gas and oil. Inflation did not have a significant effect on its operations in 2005. Significant Accounting Policies The Companys Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the allowance for bad debts, inventory, long lived assets, intangibles and goodwill. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Companys allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at an amount equal to estimated losses in its accounts receivable. The Company continually monitors the accounts receivable from its customers for any collectability issues. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on reviews of individual customer accounts, recent loss experience, current economic conditions, and other pertinent factors. Accounts deemed uncollectible are charged to the allowance. Provisions for bad debts and recoveries on accounts previously charged off are added to the allowance. All accounts outstanding more than 30 days are considered past due. Long Lived Assets In accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the Company recognizes impairment losses on long lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows over the life of the assets are less than the assets carrying amount. If an impairment exists, the amount of such impairment is calculated 43 Back to Contents based on projections of future discounted cash flows. These projections use a discount rate and terminal value multiple that would be customary for evaluating current natural gas and oil services company transactions. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is stated at cost. The Company implemented SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets on January 1, 2002 and ceased amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires an assessment of potential impairment upon adoption and annually thereafter in the month it elected to perform its analysis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Intangible assets are stated at cost and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets are subject to an assessment of potential impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company considers external factors in making its assessment. Specifically, changes in oil prices and other economic conditions surrounding the industry, consolidation within the industry, competition from other natural gas and oil well services providers, the ability to employ and maintain a skilled workforce, and other pertinent factors are among the factors that could lead its management to reassess the reliability of its goodwill and intangible assets. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are carried at original cost less applicable depreciation. Depreciation is recognized on the straight line basis over lives ranging from two to ten years. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized and depreciated over each assets estimated remaining useful life. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to expense as incurred. When assets are sold or retired, the remaining costs and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in income. Property and equipment held and used by the Company is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Company estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of the affected assets to determine the recoverability of carrying amounts. Revenue Recognition The Company derives revenues from performance of services and the sale of equipment. Service revenues are recognized at the time services are performed. The Companys sales are not usually subject to rights of return, and historically, sales returns have not been significant. Revenue related to equipment sales is recognized when the equipment has been shipped and title and risk of loss has been passed to the customer. Deferred revenue, net of deferred related cost of sales, is recorded as unearned revenues in the Companys balance sheet based on the relative days completed on the job to total required. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, the Company generally considers all expected future events other than enactments of changes in tax laws or rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company had no off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2004 and 2005. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk From time to time, the Company holds financial instruments comprised of debt securities and time deposits. All such instruments are classified as securities available for sale. The Company does not invest in portfolio equity securities, or commodities, or use financial derivatives for trading or hedging purposes. The Companys debt security portfolio represents funds held temporarily pending use in its business and operations. The Company manages these funds accordingly. The Company seeks reasonable assuredness of the safety of principal and market liquidity by investing in rated fixed income securities while, at the 44 Back to Contents same time, seeking to achieve a favorable rate of return. Its market risk exposure consists of exposure to changes in interest rates and to the risks of changes in the credit quality of issuers. The Company typically invest in investment grade securities with a term of three years or less. The Company believes that any exposure to interest rate risk is not material. At December 31, 2005, the Company held no investments. Under the Companys Credit Agreements with GECC, it is subject to market risk exposure related to changes in the prime interest rate. Assuming the Companys level of borrowings from GECC at December 31, 2005 remained unchanged throughout 2006, if a 100 basis point increase in interest rates under the Credit Agreements from rates in existence at December 31, 2005 prevailed throughout the year 2006, it would increase the Companys 2006 interest expense by approximately $552,000. The foregoing does not give effect to any repayment of outstanding indebtedness under the Companys Credit Agreements out of the net proceeds it may realize in its proposed public offering. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Item 6. Selected Financial Data and the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Report. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys future plans, estimates, beliefs and expected performance. The forward looking statements are dependent upon events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside the Companys control. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, market prices for natural gas and oil, economic and competitive conditions, regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other uncertainties, as well as those factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, all of which are difficult to predict. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward looking events discussed may not occur. Overview The Company is a natural gas and oil well services company that provides cased hole wireline and well intervention services to E&P companies. The Companys wireline services focus on cased hole wireline operations, including logging services, perforating, mechanical services, pipe recovery and plugging and abandoning the well. The Companys well intervention services are primarily hydraulic workover services, commonly known as snubbing services. All of the Companys services are performed at the well site and are fundamental to establishing and maintaining the flow of natural gas and oil throughout the productive life of the well. The Companys results of operations are affected primarily by the extent of utilization and rates paid for its wireline and well intervention services, which is dependent upon the upstream spending by the natural gas and oil exploration and production companies that comprise its client base. The Company derives a majority of its revenues from services supporting production from existing natural gas and oil operations. Demand for these production related services is less volatile than drilling related services and tends to remain relatively stable, even in lower natural gas and oil price environments, as ongoing maintenance spending is required to sustain production. As natural gas and oil prices reach higher levels, demand for the Companys production related services generally increases as its customers engage in more well servicing activities relating to existing wells to maintain or increase natural gas and oil production from those wells. Because some of the Companys services are required to support drilling activities, the Company is subject to changes in capital spending by its customers as natural gas and oil prices increase or decrease. The Company showed improvement in its revenues during 2004 and 2005 over 2003 and 2002 as a result of the increased natural gas and oil drilling and workover activity during those years. As a result of the Bobcat acquisition, which represents the Companys introduction into the well intervention services business, the Company currently operates in two business segments: wireline services and well intervention services. The Companys wireline segment includes the business conducted by Warrior Energy prior to the Bobcat acquisition, and its well intervention segment includes the business conducted by Bobcat post acquisition. Revenues The majority of the Companys revenues are generated from major and large independent natural gas and oil companies. The primary factor influencing demand for the Companys services by those customers is their level of drilling and workover activity, which, in turn, depends primarily on the availability of drilling and workover prospects and current and anticipated future natural gas and oil commodity prices and production depletion rates. 26 Back to Contents The Companys services are generally provided at a price based on bids submitted which in turn are based on the Companys current pricing, equipment and crew availability and customer location and the nature of the service to be provided. These services are routinely provided to the Companys customers and are subject to the customers time schedule, weather conditions, availability of the Companys personnel and complexity of the operation. The Companys wireline services generally take one to three days to perform while its well intervention services generally take two weeks or longer to perform. Service revenues are recognized at the time services are performed. The Company generally charges for its wireline services on a per well entry basis and its well intervention services on a day rate basis. Depending on the specific service, a per well entry or day rate may include one or more of these components: (1) a set up charge, (2) an hourly service rate based on equipment and labor, (3) an equipment rental charge, (4) a consumables charge and (5) a mileage and fuel charge. The Company determines the rates charged through a competitive bid process on a job by job basis or, for larger customers, the Company may negotiate on an annual basis. Typically, work is performed on a call out basis, whereby the customer requests services on a job specific basis, but does not guarantee work levels beyond the specific job bid. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, approximately 49.9% and 57.9%, respectively, of the Companys revenues were derived from onshore activities and approximately 50.1% and 42.1%, respectively, of the Companys revenues were derived from offshore activities. Cost and Expenses Operating Costs. The Companys operating costs are comprised primarily of labor expenses, repair and maintenance, material and fuel and insurance. In a competitive labor market in the industry, it is possible that the Company will have to raise wage rates to attract workers and retain or expand its current work force. The Company believes it will be able to increase service rates to its customers to compensate for wage rate increases. The Company also incurs costs to employ personnel to sell and supervise its services and perform maintenance on its fleet. These costs are not directly tied to the Companys level of business activity. Because the Company seeks to retain its experienced and well qualified employees during cyclical downturns in its business, and is required to pay severance under employment agreements that cover a portion of its workforce, the Company expects labor expenses to increase as a percentage of revenues during future cyclical downturns. Repair and maintenance is performed by the Companys crews, company maintenance personnel and outside service providers. Increases in the Companys material and fuel costs are frequently passed on to its customers. However, due to the timing of the Companys marketing and bidding cycles, there is generally a delay of several weeks or months from the time that it incurs an actual price increase until the time that the Company can pass on that increase to its customers. Insurance is generally a fixed cost regardless of utilization and relates to the number of rigs, trucks, skids, snubbing units and other equipment in the Companys fleet, employee payroll and safety record. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. The Companys selling, general and administrative expenses include administrative, marketing, employee compensation and related benefits, office and lease expenses, insurance costs and professional fees, as well as other costs and expenses not directly related to field operations. The Companys management regularly evaluates the level of the Companys general and administrative expenses in relation to its revenue because these expenses have a direct impact on the Companys profitability. The Company expects to incur additional expense in future periods relating to incentive compensation paid to employees. Success Bonus and Change of Control Payments. The Company expects to make change of control and success bonus payments in the aggregate amount of $2.6 million to certain key employees immediately prior to or concurrently with the closing of the Companys proposed public offering of shares of its common stock. 27 Back to Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest associated with the Companys revolving line of credit, term loan, convertible notes and other debt as described in the notes to the Companys financial statements contained elsewhere in this Report. As a result of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company expects that, when the proposed offering is completed and the net proceeds are applied to the intended uses, its debt levels will be substantially lower than their current levels which resulted from the acquisition of Bobcat on December 16, 2005. The Company also expects that its effective borrowing rate will be substantially less than that associated with the outstanding convertible subordinated debt intended to be converted to equity in connection with the proposed public offering. Accordingly, subsequent to the proposed public offering, interest expense is expected to be substantially lower than the levels of interest expense following the Companys acquisition of Bobcat. There can be no assurance that the proposed public offering will be completed. Interest income primarily consists of interest earned on the Companys cash balances. Depreciation Expense. The Companys depreciation expense is based on estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to capitalized costs, useful lives and salvage values of the Companys assets. The Company generally computes depreciation using the straight line method. Income Taxes. At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $29.2 million of net operating losses (NOLs) available to offset future taxable income. These NOLs will be applied to taxable income in 2006 prior to the Companys proposed public offering and will be subject to additional IRS Section 382 limitations subsequent to the Companys proposed public offering. Discontinued Activities. The Company sold its directional drilling division on August 6, 2004 and the operations of that division are reported in the financial statements in this Report as discontinued operations. Results of Operations The following discussion includes the results of operations of Bobcat for the period December 16, 2005 through December 31, 2005. For further information relating to the results of operations of Bobcat prior to the completion of the acquisition through September 30, 2005 and pro forma financial information reflecting the combined results of operations of the Company and Bobcat for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004, see the Companys Amendment No. 1 to its Current Report on Form 8 K filed on February 22, 2006. See also Note 2 to the Notes to Financial Statements For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 included in this Report for the pro forma statements of operations of the Company and Bobcat for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Revenues The Companys total revenues increased by approximately $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 2004. The pricing and utilization of the Companys services improved due to the increase in well maintenance and drilling activity caused by higher natural gas and oil prices. The Company also added eight additional wireline units during the year ended December 31, 2005 as well as approximately $769,000 of revenues from Bobcats operations following the acquisition. Operating Costs The Companys operating costs increased by approximately $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the same period of 2004. Operating costs were 59.0% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 64.1% of revenues for 2004. The decrease in operating costs as a percentage of revenues was primarily the result of the higher utilization and pricing in the year ended December 31, 2005 compared with 2004. Salaries and benefits increased by approximately $4.9 million 28 Back to Contents for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. Total number of employees increased from 313 at December 31, 2004 to approximately 480 at December 31, 2005, including approximately 80 employees from the Bobcat acquisition. The increase in salaries and benefits is primarily due to the increase in the number of employees in 2005 versus 2004. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $154,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 13.1% for the year ended December 31, 2005, from 17.6% in for the same period in 2004 due to relatively constant expenses and increased revenues. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased by approximately $41,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily due to certain assets becoming fully depreciated in the period. Interest Expense Interest expense and amortization of debt discount decreased by approximately $724,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. The decline in interest expense is attributable to the reduction in the Companys senior debt outstanding prior to the Bobcat acquisition. Change of Control Expense Change of control expense of $2.7 million was recognized in 2005 as a result of a change in the general partner of St. James Capital Partners, L.P. which, under the terms of certain key employment contracts, required payments to be made to those employees. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased by approximately $285,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the expensing of transaction expenses associated with a potential transaction which was terminated in August 2005. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was approximately $175,000 in 2005 and $0 in 2004. The Company realized a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004, thereby generating additional NOLs. The Company recorded net income during the year ended December 31, 2005, where NOLs were utilized to offset provision for federal income taxes. The provision for income taxes represents state income tax and alternative minimum tax provisions. A full valuation allowance has been recorded against the net deferred tax asset generated in prior years from net operating losses to be carried forward. Net Income Net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was approximately $8.2 million compared with a net loss of approximately $1.8 million for the same period of 2004. Included in 2004 results was a loss from operations of the discontinued directional drilling segment of approximately $1.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The improved results for the year ended December 31, 2005 over the same period in 2004 was primarily the result of an increase in revenues resulting from an increase in demand for the Companys services. Discontinued Operations The Company sold its directional drilling division business on August 6, 2004 and the operations of this division are reported in the financial statements included in this Report as discontinued operations. The comparisons detailed above reflect the Companys continuing operations. 29 Back to Contents Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Revenues The Companys revenues from continuing operations increased by approximately $7.9 million or 17.3 % to $53.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to revenues from continuing operations of $45.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The pricing and utilization of the Companys services improved due to the increase in well maintenance and drilling activity caused by higher natural gas and oil prices. The Company also averaged three additional wireline units for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. Operating Costs Operating costs increased by $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to 2003. This increase was due primarily to the increase in the Companys revenues and the level of the Companys operations in 2004 as compared to 2003. Salaries and benefits increased by approximately $1.8 million for 2004 as compared to 2003. This was due primarily to the Companys increased employee base. Operating costs as a percentage of revenues decreased to 64.1 % in 2004 from 66.6 % in 2003 primarily because of the increased utilization of the Companys assets as well as increases in pricing for the Companys services. The increases in pricing were largely the outgrowth of and were dependent upon the increase in demand for services in the natural gas and oil well services sector. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $209,000 to $9.5 million in 2004. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 17.6 % in 2004 from 20.2 % in 2003, primarily as a result of the increased revenue level generated in 2004 which did not require a corresponding increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased from $4.7 million in 2003 to $5.2 million in 2004, primarily because of the increase in the Companys asset base resulting from capital expenditures in the second half of 2003 and 2004. Interest Expense Interest expense and amortization of debt discount decreased by approximately $531,000 for 2004 as compared to 2003. This was directly related to lower interest rates on outstanding senior debt in 2004 as well as the reduced levels of senior debt outstanding in 2004. Other Income Net gain on sale of fixed assets decreased in 2004 to a net gain of approximately $53,000 from an approximate $239,000 net gain in 2003. Other income decreased by approximately $98,000 in 2004. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $0 in 2004 and 2003. A full valuation allowance has been recorded against the net deferred tax assets generated each year from the net operating losses to be carried forward. Net Loss Net loss for 2004 was $1.8 million, compared with a net loss of $5.5 million in 2003. The improvement in the Companys results in 2004 over 2003 was primarily attributable to the increased demand for the Companys services in 2004 primarily resulting from the improved commodities prices in 2004 and offset by the impairment recorded of $1.4 million resulting from the sale of the directional assets. 30 Back to Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary liquidity needs are to fund capital expenditures, such as expanding its wireline and well intervention services, geographic expansion, acquiring and upgrading trucks, skids and snubbing units, the addition of complementary service lines and funding general working capital needs. In addition, the Company needs capital to fund strategic business acquisitions. The Companys primary sources of funds have historically been cash flow from operations, proceeds from borrowings under bank credit facilities and the issuance of debt. Upon completion of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company anticipates that it will rely on cash generated from operations, borrowings under its revolving credit facility and possible debt and equity offerings to satisfy its liquidity needs. The Company believes that with the current and anticipated operating environment of the natural gas and oil industry, it will be able to meet its liquidity requirements for the remainder of 2006. In addition to funding operating expenses, cash requirements for 2006 are expected to be comprised mainly of amortization payments on indebtedness and funding capital improvements. The Companys planned growth initiatives are expected to require capital expenditures of in excess of $100 million over the next three years. The Companys ability to fund planned capital expenditures and to make acquisitions will depend upon its future operating performance, and more broadly, on the availability of equity and debt financing, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the Companys industry, and general financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond the Companys control. Pursuant to employment contracts, the Company expects to make success bonus payments to certain key employees immediately prior to or concurrently with the closing of its proposed public offering in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.6 million of which approximately $1.5 million is accrued as of December 31, 2005. The Companys outstanding indebtedness includes primarily senior indebtedness aggregating approximately $55.2 million at December 31, 2005, other indebtedness of approximately $1.2 million and approximately $40.1 million (including approximately $18.2 million of accrued interest) owing primarily to the St. James Partnerships as well as other holders of subordinated notes. Cash provided by the Companys operating activities was approximately $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to cash provided of approximately $3.6 million for the same period in 2004 The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due mainly as a result in the increase in demand for the Companys services. During the year ended December 31, 2005, investing activities used cash of approximately $53.2 million for the acquisition of Bobcat and $8.3 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as compared to $7.5 million for the same period in 2004, more than offset by $10.4 million in proceeds from the sale of the Multishot division. During the year ended December 31, 2005, financing activities used cash of approximately $11.6 million for principal payments on debt and approximately $2.5 million for debt issuance costs offset by proceeds from bank and other borrowings and net draws on working capital revolving loans of approximately $56.2. In 2004, financing activities used cash of approximately $23.0 million for principal payments on debt and net payments on working capital revolving loans and other borrowings and debt issuance costs of approximately $378,000 offset by proceeds from bank and other borrowings of approximately $13.6 million. 31 Back to Contents Cash provided by the Companys operating activities was approximately $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to cash provided by operating activities of $10.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was mainly a result of the change in the Companys prepaid assets associated with the financing of insurance premiums, the assignment of current assets and current liabilities in connection with the sale of the directional drilling division and the timing of other current assets and liabilities. Investing activities used cash of approximately $7.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and was offset by proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations and fixed assets of $10.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2003, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment used cash of $3.1 million offset by proceeds of $685,000 from the sale of fixed assets. Financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2004 provided cash of $13.6 million offset by principal payments on long term notes and the Companys working capital revolving loan of $23.0 million and debt issuance costs of approximately $378,000. Financing activities provided cash of $5.4 million from borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2003 offset by principal payments on long term notes and the Companys working capital revolving loan of $10.3 million and debt issuance costs of approximately $48,000. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company expended approximately $56.3 million for the acquisition of Bobcat financed under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and approximately $961,000 for other property, plant and equipment financed under notes payable. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended approximately $841,000 for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment financed under notes payable. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $3.3 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment financed under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and notes payable. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2005 with respect to the Companys known contractual obligations of the types specified below: Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations Total Prior to December 31, 2006 January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008 January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2011 January 1, 2012 and thereafter Long Term Debt(1) $ 78,343,883 $ 5,568,880 $ 8,729,771 $ 64,045,232 Capital Leases Purchase Obligations Change of Control Payment $ 1,535,388 $ 1,535,388 Other Long term Liabilities (1) Does not reflect planned use of proceeds from the Companys proposed public offering. 32 Back to Contents Description of the Companys Indebtedness Senior Secured Credit Agreement On December 16, 2005, the Company entered into the Senior Secured Credit Agreement with GECC, providing for a term loan and revolving and capital expenditure credit facilities in an aggregate amount of $50.0 million. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement amended, restated and modified the credit agreement the Company entered into with GECC as of September 14, 2001 and as it was amended and restated on November 14, 2004, including the amendments thereto. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement includes: a revolving credit facility of up to $15.0 million, but not exceeding a borrowing base of 85% of the book value of eligible accounts receivable, less any reserves GECC may establish from time to time, a term loan of $30.0 million, and a one year capital expenditure loan facility of up to $5.0 million, but not exceeding the lesser of 80% of the hard costs of eligible capital equipment and 75% of the forced liquidation value of eligible capital equipment, subject to adjustment by GECC. Eligible accounts receivable are accounts in which the Company has an interest excluding, among other items and, subject to certain exceptions, debtors accounts outstanding that are not paid within the earlier of 60 days past the due date or 90 days following the original invoice date, accounts of debtors that have suspended business or commenced various insolvency proceedings and accounts to the extent the account exceeds the credit limit established by GECC in its reasonable credit judgment. GECC has the right to establish, modify and eliminate reserves against eligible accounts receivable from time to time in its reasonable judgment. GECCs agreement to make revolving loans expires on December 16, 2008 and its agreement to make capital expenditure loans expires on December 16, 2006, unless earlier terminated under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. Interest Rates. Initially, as of the closing, the annual interest rate on borrowings under the revolving loan facility is 0.75% above the index rate, and the annual interest rate on borrowings under the term loan and capital expenditure loan facility is 2.25% above the index rate. The index rate is a floating rate equal to the higher of (i) the rate publicly quoted from time to time by the Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, or (ii) the average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions among members of the Federal Reserve System plus 0.5%. The interest rate margin above the index rate may be adjusted from time to time on a quarterly basis based on the Companys ratio of its funded debt to EBITDA for the trailing twelve months prior to the determination. Subject to the absence of an event of default and fulfillment of certain other conditions, the Company can elect to borrow or convert any loan and pay the annual interest at the LIBOR rate plus applicable margins of 2.25% on the revolving loan and 3.75% on the term loan and capital expenditure loan. If an event of default in the nature of a failure to make any payment of principal of, interest on or fees owing in respect to loans when due and payable or the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings involving the Company has occurred, the annual interest rate is increased by 2% and, if any other default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, GECC may elect to increase the interest rate by that amount. Collateral. Advances under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are collateralized by a senior lien against substantially all of the Companys assets. Use of Proceeds. Initial borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement advanced on December 16, 2005 were $1.3 million borrowed under the revolving loan and $30.0 million under the term loan. No 33 Back to Contents borrowings were made under the capital expenditure loan facility. The proceeds of the term loan were used to pay a portion of the Bobcat acquisition purchase price, related fees and expenses and repayment of substantially all Bobcat indebtedness, and approximately $2.1 million was placed in escrow for the repayment of principal and accrued interest on subordinated secured indebtedness and approximately $2.8 million was used for general corporate purposes. The outstanding balance of approximately $6.3 million under the Companys previous credit agreement with GECC was paid out of the Companys existing cash. Maturity of Loans. Borrowings under the revolving loan are able to be repaid and re borrowed from time to time for working capital and general corporate needs, subject to the Companys continuing compliance with the terms of the agreement. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving loan are due and payable on December 16, 2008. The term loan is to be repaid in 12 consecutive quarterly installments of $1.1 million commencing January 1, 2006 with a final installment of $16.8 million due and payable on January 1, 2009. The capital expenditure loan is to be repaid in eight consecutive quarterly installments with each quarterly installment equal to 1/20th of the borrowings funded prior to the expiration of the one year term of the facility and with a final installment in the amount of the remaining principal balance due on December 16, 2008. Mandatory and Voluntary Prepayments. Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are subject to certain mandatory pre payments including, among other requirements, pre payment out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering. The Company must apply the net proceeds from any sale of its stock, other than on exercise of existing warrants and conversion rights, occurring before December 31, 2006 to the prepayment of loans. Such cash proceeds, after deduction of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs the Company incurs are to be applied to the prepayment of (i) loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement, (ii) loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement, and (iii) to prepay or redeem all the Companys outstanding subordinated notes and shares of its common stock owned by St. James Capital Partners, L.P., SJMB, L.P. and other holders of the Companys subordinated secured notes as of December 16, 2005, the shares of the Companys common stock issued in exchange for warrants, subordinated notes and other convertible securities pursuant to the recapitalization agreements the Company entered into in October 2005, a fee in the amount of $274,000 owing to SJMB, L.P. and Change of Control payments in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.6 million the Company is required to make under the terms of employment agreements with certain of the Companys employees, as the term Change of Control is defined in those agreements (herein, amounts to be paid under this subsection (iii) are referred to as Junior Capital), in the following manner: (A) 100% of the first $50.0 million in net proceeds received are to be applied to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital; (B) net proceeds in excess of $50.0 million and up to $75.0 million are to be allocated 40% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 30% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 30% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement; (C) net proceeds in excess of $75.0 million and up to $100.0 million are to be allocated 60% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 20% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 20% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement; and (D) net proceeds in excess of $100.0 million are to be allocated 80% to prepay or redeem the Junior Capital, 10% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and 10% to prepay loans outstanding under the Companys Second Lien Credit Agreement. 34 Back to Contents To the extent the Junior Capital is paid or repurchased in full under the foregoing provisions prior to the prepayment in full of loans outstanding under the Companys Credit Agreements, the remaining net proceeds are to be allocated 50% to loans outstanding under the Companys Credit Agreements. If any event of default has occurred under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and is continuing, and the Company has been notified in writing of such event of default (or the Company has been notified in writing of the equivalent event of default under the Second Lien Credit Agreement), at the time the Company receives the net proceeds, 100% of such net proceeds are to be allocated to the loans outstanding under the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement, without application of any portion thereof to Junior Capital or loans under the Second Lien Credit Agreement. The Company has proposed to GECC that the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement be amended to provide that 100% of the net proceeds realized from its proposed public offering that is to be applied to the repayment of indebtedness owing to GECC be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and 0 % be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is awaiting a definitive response from GECC regarding this proposal. If the Company issues any shares of common stock, other than as described above, or any debt at any time, the Company is required to prepay the loans outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement in an amount equal to all such proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs. The Company is also required to prepay annually, commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, loans and other outstanding obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement in an amount equal to 75% of the Companys excess cash flow for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Excess cash flow is defined, with respect to any fiscal year, as the Companys net income plus depreciation, amortization and interest expense, to the extent deducted in determining net income, minus capital expenditures, minus interest expense paid or accrued and scheduled principal payments paid or payable, plus or minus, extraordinary gains or losses which are cash items not included in net income, plus taxes deducted in determining net income to the extent not paid in cash. Any mandatory prepayments made as provided above are to be applied substantially as follows: first, to any fees then due and payable to GECC, second, to interest then due and payable on the term loan and capital expenditure loan, pro rata between the term loan and capital expenditure loan, third, to prepay the scheduled principal installments on the term loan and capital expenditure loan, allocated pro rata between the term loan and capital expenditure loan, and applied to principal installments in inverse order of maturity, until the term loan and capital expenditure loan have been prepaid in full; fourth, to interest then due and payable on the revolving loan; and fifth, to the principal balance of the revolving loan until the same shall have been paid in full. The revolving loan is permanently reduced by the amount of any such prepayments. The Company may at any time prepay all or part of the term loan or capital expenditure loan, permanently reduce or terminate the capital expenditure commitment, and permanently reduce but not terminate the revolving loan commitment provided such prepayments or reductions are in the minimum amount of $500,000 and integral multiples of $250,000, subject to the payment of certain pre payment fees declining from 1.0% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the first year, 0.5% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the second year, and 0.25% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the third year of the term of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is required to use, subject to certain exceptions, the net proceeds from the sale of any assets or the stock of any subsidiary to prepay all borrowings under the facilities. The Company is required to repay any borrowings in excess of the applicable borrowing availability, including borrowings under the term loan in excess of 70% of the forced liquidation value of eligible term loan equipment. The forced liquidation value 35 Back to Contents of the eligible term loan equipment is established by appraisal conducted from time to time but not more than twice per year. Conditions to Advances. Future advances are subject to the continuing accuracy of the Companys representations and warranties as of such date (other than those relating expressly to an earlier date), the absence of any event or circumstance constituting a material adverse effect, as defined, the absence of any default or event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, and the borrowings not exceeding the applicable borrowing availability under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, after giving effect to such advance. A material adverse effect is defined to include a material adverse effect on the Companys business, assets, operations, prospects or financial or other condition, on the Companys ability to pay any of the loans under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, on the collateral or on lenders liens or rights and remedies under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. An event constituting a material adverse effect also includes a decline in the Average Rig Count (excluding Canada and international rigs) published by Baker Hughes, Inc. falling below 800 for 12 consecutive weeks. Further conditions to each advance under the capital expenditure facility require the delivery of evidence that the advance is in compliance with the conditions of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement with respect to amounts that may be borrowed to finance capital expenditures. Affirmative and Negative Covenants. Under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, the Company is obligated to maintain compliance with a number of affirmative and negative covenants. Affirmative covenants the Company must comply with include requirements to maintain the Companys corporate existence and continue the conduct of the Companys business substantially as conducted in December 2005, promptly pay all taxes and governmental assessments and levies, maintain the Companys corporate books and records, maintain insurance in form and amounts and with insurers reasonably acceptable to GECC, comply with applicable laws and regulations, maintain key man life insurance on the life of William L. Jenkins, provide supplemental disclosure to the lenders, refrain from violating the intellectual property of others, conduct the Companys operations in compliance with environmental laws, provide a mortgage or deed of trust to the lenders granting a first lien on the Companys real estate upon the request of the lenders, and provide certificates of title on newly acquired equipment with the lenders lien noted. Negative covenants the Company may not violate include, among others and subject to limitations and exceptions, (i) forming or acquiring a subsidiary, (ii) merging with, acquiring all or substantially all the assets or stock of, or otherwise combining with or acquiring, another person, (iii) making an investment in or loan to another person, subject to certain exceptions for specified high grade investments so long as there are no revolving loans outstanding, (iv) incurring any indebtedness other than specified permitted indebtedness, (v) entering into any transaction with an affiliate except in the ordinary course of the Companys business and on fair and reasonable terms no less favorable than would be obtained in a comparable arms length transaction with a non affiliated person, (vi) making loans to its employees in amounts exceeding $50,000 individually and $250,000 in the aggregate, (vii) issuing any shares of the Companys common stock if any of its stock or the stock of a subsidiary is pledged to GECC, making any change in its business objectives or operations that could adversely affect repayment of the loans or could reasonably be expected to have or result in a material adverse effect, making any change in its capital structure, including the issuance of any stock, warrants or convertible securities or any revision in the terms of outstanding stock except for permitted payments to holders of subordinated debt and options granted under an existing or future incentive option plan, or amending its charter or by laws in a manner that would adversely affect its duty or ability to repay the indebtedness, or engaging in any business other than that engaged in by the Company on December 16, 2005; (viii) creating or permitting to exist any liens on its properties or assets, with the exception of (x) those granted to the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement or in existence on the date of making the loan and permitted re financings, extensions and renewals of such liens provided the indebtedness secured is not increased and the lien does not attach to any additional property, or (y) liens created after December 16, 2005 by conditional sale or other title retention agreements or in connection with purchase money indebtedness with respect to equipment and 36 Back to Contents fixtures acquired in the ordinary course of business involving the incurrence of an aggregate amount of purchase money indebtedness and capital lease obligations of not more than $2.0 million outstanding at any one time or (z) liens securing the indebtedness under the Second Lien Credit Agreement, (xi) selling any of its properties or other assets, including the stock of any subsidiary, except inventory in the ordinary course of business, obsolete or unused equipment or fixtures with an appraised value not exceeding $200,000 per transaction and $500,000 per year, and other equipment and fixtures with a book value not exceeding $200,000 per transaction and $500,000 per year, (xii) breaching or failing to comply with the various financial covenants in the credit agreement, (xiii) releasing any hazardous material that would violate environmental laws or adversely impact the value of any collateral; (xiv) engaging in a sale leaseback, synthetic lease or similar transaction, (xv) making any restricted payments, including payment of dividends, stock or warrant redemptions, repaying subordinated notes, except as otherwise permitted under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, rescission of the sale of outstanding stock, subject to certain exceptions including, among others, permitted prepayments or redemptions of Junior Capital using the net proceeds from a public offering of its common stock, payment of reasonable and customary fees to its non employee directors, reimbursement of the reasonable expenses of St. James Capital Corp., St. James Capital Partners, L.P., SJMB, LP, and SJMB, LLC in an amount not to exceed $60,000 per year, payment of a $274,000 fee to SJMB, L.P. not later than December 31, 2006 or the date the Company complete its first public offering of common stock after December 16, 2005, and Change of Control payments (as Change of Control is defined in the employment agreements with the parties to receive the payments) on and after December 16, 2005 but before December 31, 2005 in the amount of approximately $1.1 million, and, in connection with in a contemplated public offering of shares of its common stock, in an aggregate amount not to exceed approximately $2.7 million, (xvi) purchasing any real estate in excess of $250,000, (xvii) engaging in any speculative hedging transactions; (xviii) amending or changing the terms of its subordinated debt, (xix) changing or amending the Second Lien Credit Agreement, or (xx) changing or amending the Bobcat acquisition agreement. The financial covenants prohibit the Company from making capital expenditures in any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 in an aggregate amount exceeding $6.5 million (excluding amounts financed under its capital expenditure loan facility), plus in any subsequent period the amount by which $6.5 million exceeds the amount of capital expenditures expended in the prior period. Commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006, the Company is required to have at the end of each fiscal quarter and for the 12 month period then ended, a ratio of (a) EBITDA minus capital expenditures paid in cash during such period, excluding capital expenditures financed under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, minus income taxes paid in cash during such period to (b) fixed charges including, with certain exceptions, the total of principal and interest payments during such period, of not less than 1.5:1.0. For the purpose of calculating the ratio for the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, EBITDA and fixed charges are to be measured for the period commencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the last day of such fiscal quarter. The Company is required to have, at the end of each fiscal month, a ratio of funded debt to EBITDA as of the last day of such fiscal month and for the 12 month period then ended of not more than the following: 2.25:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2006 through March 31, 2006; 2.25:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on April 30, 2006 through June 30, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on July 31, 2006 through September 30, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on October 30, 2006 through December 31, 2006; 2.00:1.00 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2007 through March 31, 2007; and 1.75:1.00 for each fiscal month ending thereafter. The Company is required to have, at the end of each fiscal month, EBITDA for the 12 month period then ended of not less than the following: 37 Back to Contents $33,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on January 31, 2006 through March 31, 2006; $33,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on April 30, 2006 through June 30, 2006; $34,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on July 31, 2006 through September 30, 2006; $34,000,000 for the fiscal months ending on October 30, 2006 through December 31, 2006; and $35,000,000 for each fiscal month ending thereafter. Events of Default. Events of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement include, among others and subject to certain limitations, (a) the failure to make any payment of principal, interest, or fees when due and payable or to pay or reimburse GECC for any expense reimbursable under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement within ten days of demand for payment, (b) the failure to perform the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement relating to use of proceeds, maintenance of a cash management system, maintenance of insurance, delivery of certificates of title for equipment, delivery of certain post closing documents, and maintenance of compliance with the Senior Secured Credit Agreements negative covenants, (c) the failure to deliver to the lenders monthly un audited, quarterly un audited and annual audited financial statements, an annual operating plan, and other reports, certificates and information as required by the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, (d) the failure to perform any other provision of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement (other than those set forth in (b) above) which nonperformance remains un remedied for 20 days or more, (e) a default or breach under any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party beyond any grace period that involves the failure to pay in excess of $250,000 or causes or permits to cause indebtedness in excess of $250,000 to become due prior to its stated maturity, (f) any information in a borrowing base certificate or any representation or warranty or certificate or in any written statement report, or financial statement delivered to GECC being untrue or incorrect in any material respect, (g) a change of control, as defined, of the Company, (h) the occurrence of an event having a material adverse effect, (i) the initiation of insolvency, bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, (j) any final judgment for the payment of money in excess of $250,000 is outstanding against the Company and is not within thirty days discharged, stayed or bonded pending appeal, (k) any material provision of or lien under any document relating to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement ceases to be valid, (l) the attachment, seizure or levy upon of the Companys assets which continues for 30 days or more, and (m) William Jenkins ceases to serve as the Companys chief executive officer, unless otherwise agreed by GECC. Upon the occurrence of a default, which is defined as any event that with the passage of time or notice or both would, unless waived or cured, become an event of default, or event of default, the lenders may discontinue making revolving loans and capital expenditure loans to the Company and increase the interest rate on all loans. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders may terminate the Senior Secured Credit Agreement, declare all indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement due and payable, and exercise any of their rights under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement which includes the ability to foreclose on the Companys assets. In the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, all borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement are immediately due and payable. Second Lien Credit Agreement The Term Loan. On December 16, 2005, the Company entered into the Second Lien Credit Agreement with GECC, providing for a term loan $25.0 million. Interest Rate. The annual interest rate on borrowings under the term loan is 6.0% above the index rate. The index rate is a floating rate equal to the higher of (i) the rate publicly quoted from time to time by the Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, or (ii) the average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions among members of the Federal Reserve System plus 0.5%. Subject to the absence of an event of default and fulfillment of certain other conditions, the Company can elect to borrow or convert any loan and pay the annual interest at the LIBOR rate plus a margin of 7.5%. If an event of default in the nature of a failure to make any payment of principal of, interest on or fees owing in respect to loans when due and payable or the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings involving the Company has occurred, the annual interest 38 Back to Contents rate is increased by 2% and, if any other default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, GECC may elect to increase the interest rate by that amount. Collateral. The loan under the Second Lien Credit Agreement is collateralized by a junior lien against substantially all of the Companys assets, subordinate to the lien under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. Use of Proceeds. Initial borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement advanced on December 16, 2005 of $25.0 million were used to pay a portion of the Bobcat acquisition purchase price. Maturity of Loan. Outstanding borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are due and payable on March 16, 2009, unless previously repaid. Mandatory and Voluntary Prepayments. Borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are subject to certain mandatory pre payments including, among other requirements, pre payment out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering in a manner substantially identical to the mandatory repayment provisions out of a portion of the net proceeds of any sale of stock by the Company in a public offering under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. As is described above, the Company has proposed to GECC that the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement be amended to provide that 100% of the net proceeds realized from its proposed public offering that is to be applied to the repayment of indebtedness owing to GECC be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and 0 % be allocated to the repayment of indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The Company is awaiting a definitive response from GECC regarding this proposal. If the Company issues any shares of common stock, other than as described above in a public offering of the Companys securities, or any debt at any time, the Company is required to prepay the loans outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement in an amount equal to all such proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other reasonable costs. Any mandatory prepayments made as provided above are to be applied substantially as follows: first, to any fees then due and payable to GECC, second, to interest then due and payable on the loan and, third, to prepay the principal of the loan. The Company may at any time prepay all or part of the loan or capital expenditure loan, subject to the payment of certain pre payment fees declining from 2.0% in during the first year, 1.0% during the second year, and 0.5% in the event the termination or reduction occurs during the third year of the term of the Second Lien Credit Agreement. The Company is required to use, subject to certain exceptions, the net proceeds from the sale of any assets or the stock of any subsidiary to prepay all borrowings under the facilities. Closing Conditions. Initial borrowings under the Second Lien Credit Agreement were subject to the fulfillment at or before the closing of closing conditions substantially identical to the conditions to be fulfilled in connection with the closing under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. Affirmative and Negative Covenants. Under the Second Lien Credit Agreement, the Company is obligated to maintain compliance with a number of affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that are substantially identical to the covenants the Company is obligated to comply with under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. Events of Default. Events of default under the Second Lien Credit Agreement are substantially identical to events of default under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement described above. 39 Back to Contents Credit Agreements General There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to remain in compliance with the financial and other covenants of the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement or be able to obtain such amendments, consents or waivers with respect to potential violations of these covenants when required. The Companys inability to do so may result in it being placed in violation of those financial and other covenants. The Company can make no assurances that it will remain in compliance with the Companys debt covenants or generate sufficient cash flows to service its debt and fund operations. Failure to comply with these debt covenants and or generate sufficient cash flow from operations could significantly impair its liquidity position and could result in GECC exercising mandatory prepayment options under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement. Should the Company be unable to borrow funds under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement or Second Lien Credit Agreement if prepayment of those borrowings were required, the Company can make no assurances that alternative funding could be obtained. Reference is made to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement, filed as exhibits to the Companys Current Report on Form 8 K for December 16, 2005 for a complete statement of the terms and conditions. Subordinated Secured Indebtedness Note Extensions In connection with the Company entering into the GECC refinancing in November 2004, the Company agreed with the holders of its outstanding subordinated secured notes to extend the maturity date of the notes from December 31, 2004 to February 13 and February 14, 2008 on $23.0 million of the total $23.9 million principal amount of the notes then outstanding. The remainder of the outstanding principal was repaid. Concurrently with the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement, the maturity date of approximately $21.9 million principal amount of the Companys outstanding subordinated secured promissory notes was extended to June 15, 2009 and $2.1 million of such subordinated secured notes, including accrued interest, was repaid. The notes bear interest at 15% per annum and are convertible into shares of the Companys common stock at a conversion price of $7.50 per share, subject to an anti dilution adjustment for certain issuances of securities by the Company at prices per share of common stock less than the conversion price then in effect, in which event the conversion price is reduced to the lower price at which the shares were issued. As a condition to extend the maturity date of the notes in connection with the GECC refinancing in November 2004, the Company extended the expiration date of the Companys 6.6 million outstanding common stock purchase warrants to December 31, 2009. Substantially all of the Companys assets are pledged as collateral for the indebtedness outstanding under the subordinated secured notes. All of the debt and interest owed under the subordinated secured notes is subordinated to the Companys Senior Secured Credit Agreement and cannot be repaid until all the amounts owed pursuant to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement mature or have been repaid. Following completion of the Companys proposed public offering, the Company does not expect to have any subordinated secured notes outstanding. Other Indebtedness. In December 2004, the Company incurred indebtedness of approximately $2.3 million in connection with financing the payment of annual insurance premiums in that amount. The indebtedness was payable in monthly installments that ended in September 2005. Recapitalization In October 2005, the Company initiated a series of steps undertaken for the purpose of recapitalizing the Company through the elimination of the substantial amount of derivative securities it has outstanding, among other steps intended to be undertaken. These derivative securities include common stock purchase 40 Back to Contents warrants to purchase 7,076,119 shares of the Companys common stock and $35,019,173 of principal amount and accrued interest, as of December 31, 2005, of its outstanding convertible subordinated notes which, as of that date, are convertible at a conversion price of $7.50 per share into an aggregate of 4,669,223 shares of the Companys common stock. On October 6, 2005, the Company entered into agreements with the holders of 5,269,369 of the 7,076,119 warrants outstanding to exchange those warrants for 1,756,456 shares of the Companys common stock. Of the 5,269,369 warrants, an aggregate of 4,075,528 are held by the St. James Partnerships, and 1,193,841 were held by the Underbrink Family Entities, which include Mr. Charles E. Underbrink. Mr. Underbrink is one of the Companys directors and is the Chairman of the general partner of SJMB, L.P. and, in October 2005, was the Chairman of the general partner of St. James Capital Partners, L.P. The exchange of warrants for shares of the Companys common stock by the Underbrink Family Entities was completed on October 6, 2005 resulting in the issuance of 397,947 shares, and the warrants to purchase 4,075,527 shares held by the St. James Partnerships are to be repurchased in connection with the Companys proposed public offering. In the event the warrants to purchase 4,075,527 shares held by the St. James Partnerships have not been purchased by the Company by June 30, 2006, the warrants will be converted into 1,358,509 shares of common stock. On October 7, 2005, the Company commenced an offer to exchange shares of its common stock for its remaining outstanding 1,806,750 common stock purchase warrants. The Company offered to exchange one share of the Companys common stock for each three warrants. Each warrant represents the right to purchase one share of the Companys common stock at an exercise price of $7.50 per share. The offer to exchange shares of the Companys common stock for warrants expired on November 14, 2005, and the Company issued 503,167 shares of its common stock in exchange for 1,509,500 common stock purchase warrants. The agreements with the St. James Partnerships and Underbrink Family Entities provide that such persons will convert an aggregate of $20,277,374 of principal and all accrued interest (which amounted to $16,734,434 through December 31, 2005) on the Companys outstanding convertible subordinated notes into shares of the Companys common stock and, provided the price they are to receive is not less than $7.50 per share, sell those shares to the Company, along with the shares issued in exchange for their warrants, the shares issued on conversion of notes and accrued interest in November 2005 and an additional 501,748 shares held by SJMB, L.P., at the closing time of the Companys proposed public offering. The purchase price paid by the Company for such shares will be the price per share it receives in the public offering less commissions and expenses of the underwriters in the offering. In addition, under the terms of a Registration Rights Agreement, the holders of $3,041,361 principal amount and accrued interest (as of December 31, 2005) on outstanding convertible subordinated notes have the right to have included 405,515 shares issuable on conversion of the principal and interest on the notes, as well as the shares of the Companys common stock issued in exchange for their warrants, in the registration statement relating to the Companys proposed public offering. If the managing underwriter concludes that the amount of shares included in the registration statement for the account of selling stockholders must be reduced, the Companys Recapitalization Agreements with the Underbrink Family Entities and the St. James Partnerships provide that the first shares to be cut back out of the number of shares to be sold and required to be purchased by the Company out of the net proceeds of its proposed public offering, are the shares held by the Underbrink Family Entities (including Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and any other shares held). If the managing underwriter is of the view that a larger cutback is to be made in the number of shares included in the proposed public offering for the account of selling stockholders, the second classification of shares to be cut back out of shares required to be purchased by the Company out of the net proceeds of the Companys proposed public offering will be the 501,748 shares held by SJMB, L.P. Thereafter, if the managing underwriter is of the view that a larger cutback is to be made in the number of shares included for the account of selling stockholders, the Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and Warrants held by the St. James Partnerships to 41 Back to Contents be purchased by the Company at the closing of the proposed public offering will be cut back pro rata based on the number of Conversion Shares, Exchange Shares and Warrants proposed to be sold collectively by the St. James Partnerships. For these purposes and the pro rata calculations required, each three Warrants would be treated as the equivalent of one Exchange Share and the first of the securities to be cut back from purchase by the Company from the St. James Partnerships would be the Conversion Shares and the last to be cut back would be the Warrants. Other Matters Litigation involving the St. James Partnerships, their general partners and Charles E. Underbrink The St. James Partnerships, their general partners and Charles E. Underbrink, who is one of the Companys directors and a director of one of the general partners of the St. James Partnerships, were added as defendants in an amended complaint filed in March 2005 in Texas by two of the limited partners of the St. James Partnerships. The action was originally instituted in December 2004 against the auditors of the St. James Partnerships. The plaintiffs brought the action as a class action on behalf of all the limited partners of the St. James Partnerships and are seeking class action certification. No claim has been asserted against the Company and the Company is not a defendant in the action. However, the complaint and the amended complaint in the action contain allegations that the Company participated with Mr. Underbrink in actions the plaintiffs allege were fraudulent and constituted securities violations. The Company has not concluded that it is probable that a claim will be asserted against it and it does not believe that if a claim is asserted that there is a reasonable possibility that the outcome would be unfavorable to the Company or that any resulting liability would be material to its financial condition. In the Companys view, the allegations in the complaint and amended complaint relating to it are baseless, without factual foundation and untrue. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements On December 21, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Staff Position (FSP) FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, was issued. FSP FAS 109 1 clarifies that this tax deduction should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with Statement 109. As such, the special deduction has no effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at the date of enactment. Rather, the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction is claimed on the Companys tax return beginning in 2005. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)). This Statement requires that the costs of employee share based payments be measured at fair value on the awards grant date using an option pricing model and recognized in the financial statements over the requisite service period. This Statement does not change the accounting for stock ownership plans, which are subject to American Institute of Certified Public Accountants SOP 93 6, Employers Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans. Statement 123(R) supersedes Opinion 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and its related interpretations, and eliminates the alternative to use Opinion 25s intrinsic value method of accounting, which the Company is currently using. Certain stock awards may be considered liabilities instead of equity components under SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) allows for two alternative transition methods. The first method is the modified prospective application whereby compensation cost for the portion of awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered that are outstanding as of the adoption date will be recognized over the remaining service period. The compensation cost for that portion of awards will be based on the grant date fair value of those awards as calculated for pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123, as originally issued. All new awards and awards that are modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the adoption date will be accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). The second method is the modified retrospective application, which requires that the Company restate prior period financial statements. The modified 42 Back to Contents retrospective application may be applied either to all prior periods or only to prior interim periods in the year of adoption of this statement. The Company adopted the modified prospective application method on January 1, 2006 and does not expect a material impact on its financial statements. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, which is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The amendments made by SFAS No. 151 will improve financial reporting by clarifying that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges and by requiring the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The adoption of Statement 151 did not have a significant effect on the Companys financial statements. In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46(R)), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51. The primary objectives of FIN 46R are to provide guidance on the identification of entities for which control is achieved through means other than through voting rights (variable interest entities or VIEs) and how to determine if a business enterprise should consolidate the VIEs. This new model for consolidation applies to an entity for which either: the equity investors (if any) do not have a controlling financial interest; or the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance the entitys activities without receiving additional subordinated financial support from other parties. In addition, FIN 46(R) requires that all enterprises with a significant variable interest in a VIE make additional disclosures regarding their relationship with the VIE. The interpretation requires public entities to apply FIN 46(R) to all entities that are considered Special Purpose Entities in practice and under the FASB literature that was applied before the issuance of FIN 46(R). The adoption of FIN 46R had no effect on the Companys financial statements. Inflation. The Companys revenues have been and are expected to continue to be affected by fluctuations in the prices for natural gas and oil. Inflation did not have a significant effect on its operations in 2005. Significant Accounting Policies The Companys Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the allowance for bad debts, inventory, long lived assets, intangibles and goodwill. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Companys allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at an amount equal to estimated losses in its accounts receivable. The Company continually monitors the accounts receivable from its customers for any collectability issues. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on reviews of individual customer accounts, recent loss experience, current economic conditions, and other pertinent factors. Accounts deemed uncollectible are charged to the allowance. Provisions for bad debts and recoveries on accounts previously charged off are added to the allowance. All accounts outstanding more than 30 days are considered past due. Long Lived Assets In accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the Company recognizes impairment losses on long lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows over the life of the assets are less than the assets carrying amount. If an impairment exists, the amount of such impairment is calculated 43 Back to Contents based on projections of future discounted cash flows. These projections use a discount rate and terminal value multiple that would be customary for evaluating current natural gas and oil services company transactions. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is stated at cost. The Company implemented SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets on January 1, 2002 and ceased amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires an assessment of potential impairment upon adoption and annually thereafter in the month it elected to perform its analysis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Intangible assets are stated at cost and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets are subject to an assessment of potential impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company considers external factors in making its assessment. Specifically, changes in oil prices and other economic conditions surrounding the industry, consolidation within the industry, competition from other natural gas and oil well services providers, the ability to employ and maintain a skilled workforce, and other pertinent factors are among the factors that could lead its management to reassess the reliability of its goodwill and intangible assets. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are carried at original cost less applicable depreciation. Depreciation is recognized on the straight line basis over lives ranging from two to ten years. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized and depreciated over each assets estimated remaining useful life. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to expense as incurred. When assets are sold or retired, the remaining costs and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in income. Property and equipment held and used by the Company is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Company estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of the affected assets to determine the recoverability of carrying amounts. Revenue Recognition The Company derives revenues from performance of services and the sale of equipment. Service revenues are recognized at the time services are performed. The Companys sales are not usually subject to rights of return, and historically, sales returns have not been significant. Revenue related to equipment sales is recognized when the equipment has been shipped and title and risk of loss has been passed to the customer. Deferred revenue, net of deferred related cost of sales, is recorded as unearned revenues in the Companys balance sheet based on the relative days completed on the job to total required. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, the Company generally considers all expected future events other than enactments of changes in tax laws or rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company had no off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2004 and 2005. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk From time to time, the Company holds financial instruments comprised of debt securities and time deposits. All such instruments are classified as securities available for sale. The Company does not invest in portfolio equity securities, or commodities, or use financial derivatives for trading or hedging purposes. The Companys debt security portfolio represents funds held temporarily pending use in its business and operations. The Company manages these funds accordingly. The Company seeks reasonable assuredness of the safety of principal and market liquidity by investing in rated fixed income securities while, at the 44 Back to Contents same time, seeking to achieve a favorable rate of return. Its market risk exposure consists of exposure to changes in interest rates and to the risks of changes in the credit quality of issuers. The Company typically invest in investment grade securities with a term of three years or less. The Company believes that any exposure to interest rate risk is not material. At December 31, 2005, the Company held no investments. Under the Companys Credit Agreements with GECC, it is subject to market risk exposure related to changes in the prime interest rate. Assuming the Companys level of borrowings from GECC at December 31, 2005 remained unchanged throughout 2006, if a 100 basis point increase in interest rates under the Credit Agreements from rates in existence at December 31, 2005 prevailed throughout the year 2006, it would increase the Companys 2006 interest expense by approximately $552,000. The foregoing does not give effect to any repayment of outstanding indebtedness under the Companys Credit Agreements out of the net proceeds it may realize in its proposed public offering. 
</SECTION>
