<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: MEDICIS PHARMACEUTICAL CORP
CIK: 0000859368
SIC: 2834
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20111231
FILE DATE: 20120228
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and contractual obligations, as well as discusses our critical accounting policies and estimates. You should read the following discussion and analysis together with our consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, which are included in this Form 10 K. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below and elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10 K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward looking statements in this report. Our MD&A is composed of four major sections; Executive Summary, Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Executive Summary We are a leading independent specialty pharmaceutical company focused primarily on helping patients attain a healthy and youthful appearance and self image through the development and marketing in the U.S. and Canada of products for the treatment of dermatological and aesthetic conditions. We offer a broad range of products addressing various conditions or aesthetics improvements, including facial wrinkles, glabellar lines, acne, fungal infections, hyperpigmentation, photoaging, psoriasis, actinic keratosis, bronchospasms, external genital and perianal warts/condyloma acuminata, seborrheic dermatitis and cosmesis (improvement in the texture and appearance of skin). During the fourth quarter of 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Graceway for approximately $455.9 million in cash, after our successful bid at a bankruptcy auction. Graceways commercial pharmaceutical product portfolio includes on market prescription products and important development projects primarily in dermatology and womens health specialties. Also during the fourth quarter of 2011, we closed the sale of our LipoSonix business to Solta for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $35.5 million and continuing milestone payments based upon the commercial success of the LipoSonix products. Our current product lines are divided between the dermatological and non dermatological fields. The dermatological field represents products for the treatment of acne and acne related dermatological conditions and non acne dermatological conditions. The non dermatological field represents products in the respiratory and womens health specialties and products for the treatment of urea cycle disorder. Our non dermatological field also includes contract revenues associated with licensing agreements and authorized generic agreements. Our acne and acne related dermatological product lines include SOLODYN&reg; and ZIANA&reg;. Our non acne dermatological product lines include DYSPORT&reg;, LOPROX&reg;, PERLANE&reg;, RESTYLANE&reg;, VANOS&reg; and ZYCLARA&reg;. Our non dermatological product lines include AMMONUL&reg; and BUPHENYL&reg; (sodium phenylbutyrate) Powder and Tablets. Financial Information About Segments We operate in one business segment: pharmaceuticals. Our current pharmaceutical franchises are divided between the dermatological and non dermatological fields. Information on revenues, operating income, identifiable assets and supplemental revenue of our business franchises appears in the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 hereof. Key Aspects of Our Business We derive a majority of our revenue from our primary products: DYSPORT&reg;, PERLANE&reg;, RESTYLANE&reg;, SOLODYN&reg;, VANOS&reg;, ZIANA&reg; and ZYCLARA&reg;. We believe that sales of our primary products will constitute a significant portion of our revenue for 2012. 56 Table of Contents We have built our business by executing a four part growth strategy: promoting existing brands, developing new products and important product line extensions, entering into and utilizing strategic collaborations and acquiring complementary products, technologies and businesses. Our core philosophy is to cultivate high integrity relationships of trust and confidence with the foremost physicians in the U.S. and Canada. We rely on third parties to manufacture our products. We estimate customer demand for our prescription products primarily through use of third party syndicated data sources which track prescriptions written by health care providers and dispensed by licensed pharmacies. The data represents extrapolations from information provided only by certain pharmacies and are estimates of historical demand levels. We estimate customer demand for our non prescription products primarily through internal data that we compile. We observe trends from these data and, coupled with certain proprietary information, prepare demand forecasts that are the basis for our purchase orders for finished and component inventory from our third party manufacturers and suppliers. Our forecasts may fail to accurately anticipate ultimate customer demand for our products. Overestimates of demand and sudden changes in market conditions may result in excessive inventory production and underestimates may result in an inadequate supply of our products in channels of distribution. We schedule our inventory purchases to meet anticipated customer demand. As a result, miscalculation of customer demand or relatively small delays in our receipt of manufactured products could result in revenues being deferred or lost. Our operating expenses are based upon anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. We sell our products primarily to major wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains. Approximately 80% of our gross revenues are typically derived from two major drug wholesale concerns. Depending on the customer, we recognize revenue at the time of shipment to the customer, or at the time of receipt by the customer, net of estimated provisions. As a result of certain amendments made to our distribution services agreement with McKesson, our exclusive U.S. distributor of our aesthetics products DYSPORT&reg;, PERLANE&reg; and RESTYLANE&reg;, we began recognizing revenue on these products upon the shipment from McKesson to physicians beginning in the second quarter of 2009. Consequently, variations in the timing of revenue recognition could cause significant fluctuations in operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated periodic earnings shortfalls or losses. We have distribution services agreements with our two largest wholesale customers. We review the supply levels of our significant products sold to major wholesalers by reviewing periodic inventory reports that are supplied to us by our major wholesalers in accordance with the distribution services agreements. We rely wholly upon our wholesale and retail chain drugstore customers to effect the distribution allocation of substantially all of our prescription products. We believe our estimates of trade inventory levels of our products, based on our review of the periodic inventory reports supplied by our major wholesalers and the estimated demand for our products based on prescription and other data, are reasonable. We further believe that inventories of our products among wholesale customers, taken as a whole, are similar to those of other specialty pharmaceutical companies, and that our trade practices, which periodically involve volume discounts and early payment discounts, are typical of the industry. We periodically offer promotions to wholesale and retail chain drugstore customers to encourage dispensing of our prescription products, consistent with prescriptions written by licensed health care providers. Because many of our prescription products compete in multi source markets, it is important that licensed health care providers dispensing instructions are fulfilled with our branded products and are not improperly substituted with a generic product or another therapeutic alternative product which may be contrary to the licensed health care providers recommended and prescribed Medicis brand. We believe that a critical component of our brand protection program is maintenance of full product availability at wholesale and retail chain drugstore customers. We believe such availability reduces the probability of local and regional product substitutions, shortages and backorders, which could result in lost sales. We expect to continue providing favorable terms to wholesale and retail chain drugstore customers as may be necessary to ensure the fullest possible distribution of our branded products within the pharmaceutical chain of commerce. From time to time we may enter into business arrangements (e.g., loans or investments) involving our customers and those arrangements may be reviewed by federal and state regulators. 57 Table of Contents Purchases by any given customer, during any given period, may be above or below reported prescription volumes of any of our products during the same period, resulting in fluctuations of product inventory in the distribution channel. In addition, we consistently assess our product mix and portfolio to promote a high level of profitability and revenues and to ensure that our products are responsive to consumer tastes and changes to regulatory classifications. During early 2011, we discontinued our TRIAZ&reg; branded products and decided to no longer promote our PLEXION&reg; branded products. Recent Developments As described in more detail below, the following significant events and transactions occurred during 2011, (in chronological order) and affected our results of operations, our cash flows and our financial condition: Research and development agreement with Anacor; Settlement agreement with Teva regarding SOLODYN&reg; patent infringement; Classification of LipoSonix as a discontinued operation; Increase of our quarterly dividend from $0.06 per share to $0.08 per share; Development milestone payment related to our collaboration with a privately held U.S. biotechnology company; Issuance of new patent covering SOLODYN&reg;; Settlement of class action and derivative lawsuits; Establishment of a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan; License and settlement agreement and joint development agreement with Lupin; License and settlement agreement with Nycomed related to VANOS&reg;; Approval of stock repurchase plan; License and settlement agreement with Aurobindo related to SOLODYN&reg;; FDA approval of lip indication for RESTYLANE; Impairment of intangible assets; Sale of LipoSonix to Solta Medical; Acquisition of the assets of Graceway; and New managed care contracts effective January 1, 2012. Research and development agreement with Anacor On February 9, 2011, we entered into a research and development agreement with Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Anacor) for the discovery and development of boron based small molecule compounds directed against a target for the potential treatment of acne. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid Anacor $7.0 million in connection with the execution of the agreement, and will pay up to $153.0 million upon the achievement of certain research, development, regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as royalties on sales by us. Anacor will be responsible for discovering and conducting the early development of product candidates which utilize Anacors proprietary boron chemistry platform, while we will have an option to obtain an exclusive license for products covered by the agreement. The initial $7.0 million payment was recognized as research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2011. Settlement agreement with Teva regarding SOLODYN&reg; patent infringement On February 24, 2011, we entered into a settlement agreement (Teva Settlement Agreement) with Barr Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., on behalf of itself and certain of its affiliates, 58 Table of Contents including Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (collectively, Teva). Under the terms of the Teva Settlement Agreement, we agreed to grant to Teva a future license to make and sell our generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 65mg and 115mg strengths under the SOLODYN&reg; intellectual property rights belonging to us, with the license grant effective in February 2018, or earlier under certain conditions. We also agreed to grant to Teva a future license to make and sell generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 55mg, 80mg and 105mg strengths under our SOLODYN&reg; intellectual property rights, with the license grant effective in February 2019, or earlier under certain conditions. The Teva Settlement Agreement provides that Teva will be required to pay us royalties based on sales of Tevas generic SOLODYN&reg; products pursuant to the foregoing licenses. Pursuant to the Teva Settlement Agreement, the companies agreed to terminate all legal disputes between them relating to SOLODYN&reg;. In addition, Teva confirmed that our patents relating to SOLODYN&reg; are valid and enforceable, and cover Tevas activities relating to Tevas generic SOLODYN&reg; products under ANDA No. 65 485 and any amendments and supplements thereto. Teva also agreed to be permanently enjoined from any distribution of generic SOLODYN&reg; products in the U.S. except as described above. The United States District Court for the District of Maryland subsequently entered a permanent injunction against any infringement by Teva. Classification of LipoSonix as a discontinued operation On February 25, 2011, we announced that as a result of our strategic planning process and the current regulatory and commercial capital equipment environment, we determined to explore strategic alternatives for our LipoSonix business including, but not limited to, the sale of the stand alone business. We engaged Deutsche Bank to assist us in our exploration of strategic alternatives for LipoSonix (see Sale of LipoSonix to Solta Medical below for additional information regarding the sale of the LipoSonix business). As a result of this decision, we now classify the LipoSonix business as a discontinued operation for financial statement reporting purposes. Increase of our quarterly dividend from $0.06 per share to $0.08 per share On March 22, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend of $0.08 per issued and outstanding share of our Class A common stock, which was paid on April 29, 2011, to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 1, 2011. This represented a 33% increase compared to our previous $0.06 dividend. Subsequent cash dividends announced in June, September and December 2011 were also at the rate of $0.08 per issued and outstanding share of our Class A common stock, and were paid on July 29, 2011, to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 1, 2011, on October 31, 2011, to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 3, 2011, and on January 31, to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 3, 2012, respectively. Development milestone payment related to our collaboration with a privately held U.S. biotechnology company On September 10, 2010, we and a privately held U.S. biotechnology company entered into a sublicense and development agreement to develop an agent for specific dermatological conditions in the Americas and Europe and a purchase option to acquire the privately held U.S. biotechnology company. Under the terms of the agreements, we paid the privately held U.S. biotechnology company $5.0 million in connection with the execution of the agreements, and will pay additional potential milestone payments totaling approximately $100.5 million upon successful completion of certain clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones. During the three months ended June 30, 2011, a development milestone was achieved, and we made a $5.5 million payment pursuant to the agreements. The $5.5 million milestone payment was recognized as research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2011. Issuance of new patent covering SOLODYN&reg; On April 5, 2011, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) issued U.S. Patent No. 7,919,483, entitled Method For The Treatment Of Acne (the 483 Patent) to us. The 483 Patent, which expires in March 2027, covers methods of using a controlled release oral dosage form of minocycline to treat 59 Table of Contents acne, including the use of our product SOLODYN&reg; in all eight currently available dosage forms. As previously reported, the USPTO issued a Notice of Allowance for U.S. Application No. 11/166,817, the patent application for the 483 Patent, in October 2009 and a second Notice of Allowance in April 2010 following the completion of a Request for Continued Examination which we filed with the USPTO in November 2009. Settlement of class action and derivative lawsuits On June 6, 2011, we, certain of our current officers and directors named in the class action and derivative lawsuits more fully described under Commitments and Contingencies Legal Matters in Note 12 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 15 of Part IV of this report, Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and our outside auditors entered into Memoranda of Understanding with the plaintiffs representatives to memorialize an agreement in principle to settle the class action, as well as both stockholder derivative lawsuits. We and the respective plaintiffs representatives in the class action and derivative suits filed motions in the applicable courts on September 21, 2011 and October 7, 2011, respectively, for preliminary approval of the respective settlement agreements. The Court granted the motion for preliminary approval for the class action settlement on November 2, 2011, and set a hearing for final approval on February 23, 2012. At the hearing on February 23, 2012, the Court stated that it was granting final approval of the class action settlement agreement. We are awaiting entry of a written order by the Court to that effect and judgment dismissing the action with prejudice. Under the terms of the class action settlement agreement, our portion of the settlement will be paid entirely by insurance. Our outside auditors also will contribute to this settlement. The Court granted the motion for preliminary approval for the derivative lawsuits settlement on November 3, 2011, and granted final approval of the settlement on December 14, 2011. The derivative lawsuits settlement, the only financial component of which involves payment of plaintiffs attorneys fees, will be paid entirely by insurance. The settlement of the derivative lawsuits also reflects certain control and other enhancements undertaken by us in connection with and subsequent to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements in 2008. We are not required to make any payments to fund the settlements of the class action or the derivative lawsuits. The settlement agreements contain no admission of liability by us or the named individuals in the respective actions, the allegations of which are expressly denied in the settlement agreements. Establishment of a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan On June 24, 2011, our Compensation Committee adopted the Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as such plan may be amended from time to time (the SERP), a non qualified, noncontributory, defined benefit pension plan that provides supplemental retirement income for a select group of officers, including our named executive officers. The SERP is effective as of June 1, 2011. Retirement benefits are calculated based on a percentage (which ranges from 1.25% 10%) of a SERP participants average earnings (base salary plus cash bonus or incentive payments) during any three calendar years of service (regardless of whether the years are consecutive), beginning with the 2009 calendar year multiplied by the participants years of service up to a specified cap on service (which ranges between five and twenty years). But in no event will an executive officers retirement benefit exceed 50% of his or her average earnings, and for those participants who are not executive officers, their retirement benefits will not exceed 25% of average earnings. The SERP retirement benefit is intended to be paid to participants who reach the normal retirement date, which is age 65, or age 59 1/2 with twenty years of service, subject to certain exceptions. A SERP participant vests in 1/6th of his or her retirement benefit per plan year (which runs from June 1 to May 31), effective as of the first day of the plan year, and becomes fully vested in his or her accrued retirement benefit upon (1) the participants normal retirement date, provided that the participant has at least fifteen years of service with the Company and is employed by the Company on such date, (2) the participants separation from service due to a discharge without cause or resignation for good reason (as such terms are defined in the participants employment agreement, or in the absence of such employment agreement or definitions, in the Companys Executive Retention Plan), or (3) a change in control of the Company. A SERP participant accrues 60 Table of Contents his or her retirement benefit based on (x) the participants number of years of service with the Company (including prior years of service), divided by (y) the number of years designated for such participants tier (which ranges from five to twenty years). Participants in the SERP received credit for prior service with us. The prior service accrued benefit of approximately $33.8 million was recorded during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as other comprehensive income within stockholders equity, and is amortized as compensation expense over the remaining service years of each participant. We also established a deferred tax asset of approximately $12.0 million, the benefit of which was also recorded in other comprehensive income. Amortization of prior service costs recognized as compensation expense during the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $2.8 million. Based on the status of the plan as of December 31, 2011, amortization of prior service costs during the year ended December 31, 2012 is expected to be approximately $4.8 million. Compensation expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2011 related to current service costs was approximately $0.5 million. Interest cost accrued related to prior and current service costs during the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $0.8 million. The total present value of accrued benefits for the SERP as of December 31, 2011 was approximately $35.0 million, which is included in other long term liabilities in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011. We maintain a rabbi trust to fund the SERP benefit. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we purchased life insurance policy investments of approximately $9.8 million to fund the SERP. The life insurance policies cover the SERP participants. We intend to make similar annual purchases during each of the next four years. A net gain on the investments of approximately $0.1 million was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2011. The total investment related to the SERP of $9.9 million is included in other assets in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011, and is the cash surrender value of the life insurance policies, representing the fair value of the plan assets. License and settlement agreement and joint development agreement with Lupin On July 21, 2011, we entered into a license and settlement agreement (the Lupin Settlement Agreement) with Lupin Limited and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (together, Lupin). Under the terms of the Lupin Settlement Agreement, we agreed to grant to Lupin a future license to make and sell our generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 45mg, 90mg and 135mg strengths under the SOLODYN&reg; intellectual property rights belonging to us, with the license grant effective November 26, 2011, or earlier under certain conditions. We also agreed to grant to Lupin future licenses to make and sell our generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 65mg and 115mg strengths effective in February 2018, or earlier under certain conditions, and our generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 55mg (against which Lupins Paragraph IV Patent Certification was the first received by us), 80mg and 105mg strengths effective in February 2019, or earlier under certain conditions. The Lupin Settlement Agreement provides that Lupin will be required to pay us royalties based on sales of Lupins generic SOLODYN&reg; products pursuant to the foregoing licenses. Pursuant to the Lupin Settlement Agreement, Lupin and we agreed to terminate all legal disputes between us relating to SOLODYN&reg;. In addition, Lupin confirmed that our patents relating to SOLODYN&reg; are valid and enforceable, and cover Lupins activities relating to Lupins generic SOLODYN&reg; products under an ANDA. Lupin also agreed to be permanently enjoined from any distribution of generic SOLODYN&reg; products in the U.S. except as described above. On July 21, 2011, we entered into a Joint Development Agreement (the Joint Development Agreement) with Lupin Limited, on behalf of itself and its affiliates (hereinafter collectively referred to in this paragraph as Lupin), whereby Lupin and we will collaborate to develop multiple novel proprietary therapeutic products. Pursuant to the Joint Development Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions contained therein, we made an up front $20.0 million payment to Lupin and will make additional payments to Lupin of up to $38.0 million upon the achievement of certain research, development, regulatory and other milestones, as well as royalty payments 61 Table of Contents on sales of the products covered under the agreement. In addition, we will receive an exclusive, worldwide (excluding India) license on the sale of the products covered under the Joint Development Agreement. The $20.0 million up front payment was recognized as research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2011. License and settlement agreement with Nycomed related to VANOS&reg; On August 4, 2011, we entered into a license and settlement agreement (the Nycomed Settlement Agreement) with Nycomed US, Inc. (collectively with its affiliates, Nycomed). In connection with the Nycomed Settlement Agreement, Nycomed and we agreed to terminate all legal disputes between us relating to VANOS&reg;. In addition, Nycomed confirmed that certain of our patents relating to VANOS&reg; are valid and enforceable, and cover Nycomeds activities relating to its generic products under its ANDA. Further, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Nycomed Settlement Agreement, we agreed to grant to Nycomed, effective December 15, 2013, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events, a license to make and sell generic versions of VANOS&reg; products. Upon commercialization by Nycomed of generic versions of VANOS&reg; products, Nycomed will pay us a royalty based on sales of such generic products. Approval of stock repurchase plan On August 8, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a Stock Repurchase Plan to purchase up to $200 million in aggregate value of shares of our Class A common stock. Any repurchases will be made in compliance with the SECs Rule 10b 18 if applicable, and may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including the entry into derivatives transactions. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of repurchases will depend on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, stock price, economic and market conditions and corporate and regulatory requirements. Any repurchases will be funded by general corporate funds. The plan does not obligate us to repurchase any common stock. The plan is scheduled to terminate on the earlier of the first anniversary of the plan or the time at which the purchase limit is reached, but may be suspended or terminated at any time at our discretion without prior notice. As part of our stock repurchase program, we may from time to time enter into structured share repurchase agreements with financial institutions. These agreements generally require us to make one or more cash payments in exchange for the right to receive shares of our common stock and or cash at the expiration of the agreement and or at various times during the term of the agreement, generally based on the market price of our common stock during the relevant valuation period or periods, but we may enter into structured share repurchase agreements with different features. In August 2011, we entered into structured share repurchase arrangements and purchased from a financial institution over the counter in the money capped call options for an aggregate premium of $50.0 million. The capped call options had various scheduled expiration dates within the month of November 2011. The arrangements provided that an option would be automatically exercised if the market price of our Class A common stock on the relevant expiration date was greater than the applicable lower strike price (e.g., the options went in the money). If the market price of our Class A common stock on the relevant expiration date was below the applicable lower strike price, the relevant option expired with no value. If the market price of our Class A common stock on the relevant expiration date was between the applicable lower and upper strike prices, the value per option to us would be the then current market price less the lower strike price and the relevant options would be physically settled. If the market price of our Class A common stock is above the applicable upper strike price, the value per option to us would be the difference between the applicable upper strike price and lower strike price and the default settlement method for the relevant options would be cash settlement, although we could elect physical settlement subject to certain conditions. Under these arrangements, any 62 Table of Contents prepayments made or cash payments received at settlement were recorded as a component of additional paid in capital in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Based on the closing price of our Class A common stock on the relevant expiration dates in November 2011, all $50.0 million was used to repurchase 1,436,500 shares of our Class A common stock. In accordance with our Stock Repurchase Plan, we also purchased 3,001,733 shares of our Class A common stock in the open market at a weighted average cost of $33.34 per share during the period from the inception of the plan through December 31, 2011. Total shares repurchased from the inception of the plan through December 31, 2011 in the open market and through the structured share repurchase arrangements were 4,438,233 shares at a weighted average cost of $33.82 per share, or approximately $150 million in the aggregate. After giving effect to the purchases during the period from the inception of the plan through December 31, 2011, the remaining authorized amount under the plan is approximately $49.9 million. License and settlement agreement with Aurobindo related to SOLODYN&reg; On September 13, 2011, we entered into a license and settlement agreement (the Aurobindo Settlement Agreement), dated as of September 6, 2011, with Aurobindo Pharma U.S.A., Inc. on behalf of itself and its affiliates (collectively, Aurobindo). Under the terms of the Aurobindo Settlement Agreement, we agreed to grant to Aurobindo a future license to make and sell its generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 45mg, 90mg and 135mg strengths under the SOLODYN&reg; intellectual property rights belonging to us, with the license grant effective November 26, 2011, or earlier under certain conditions. We also agreed to grant to Aurobindo future licenses to make and sell its generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 65mg and 115mg strengths effective in February 2018, or earlier under certain conditions, and its generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; in 55mg, 80mg and 105mg strengths effective in February 2019, or earlier under certain conditions. The Aurobindo Settlement Agreement provides that Aurobindo will be required to pay us royalties based on sales of Aurobindos generic SOLODYN&reg; products pursuant to the foregoing licenses. Pursuant to the Aurobindo Settlement Agreement, Aurobindo and we agreed to terminate all legal disputes between us relating to SOLODYN&reg;. In addition, Aurobindo confirmed that our patents relating to SOLODYN&reg; are valid and enforceable, and cover Aurobindos activities relating to Aurobindos generic SOLODYN&reg; products under its ANDA. Aurobindo also agreed to be permanently enjoined from any distribution of generic SOLODYN&reg; products in the U.S. except as described above. The Aurobindo Settlement Agreement settled our last pending patent infringement litigation with respect to generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; (minocycline HCl, USP) Extended Release Tablets in any of our currently commercialized strengths. FDA approval of lip indication for RESTYLANE&reg; On October 11, 2011, we announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved our premarket approval application supplement to expand the approved use of RESTYLANE&reg; to include lip augmentation. RESTYLANE&reg; was previously approved for mid to deep dermal implantation for the correction of moderate to severe facial wrinkles and folds, such as the lines from the nose to the corners of the mouth (nasolabial folds). The new label now includes an indication for submucosal implantation for lip augmentation in patients over the age of 21. Impairment of intangible assets We assess the potential impairment of long lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an 63 Table of Contents impairment review include significant under performance of a product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends and significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets. Recoverability of assets that will continue to be used in our operations is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to our estimate of the related total future net cash flows. If an asset carrying value is not recoverable through the related cash flows, the asset is considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by the difference between the asset groupings carrying amount and its present value of anticipated net cash flows, based on the best information available, including market prices or discounted cash flow analysis. If the assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, we recognize an impairment loss through a charge to operating results to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the assets carrying value. When it is determined that the useful lives of assets are shorter than originally estimated, and there are sufficient cash flows to support the carrying value of the assets, we will accelerate the rate of amortization charges in order to fully amortize the assets over their new shorter useful lives. During the year ended December 31, 2011, intangible assets related to certain of our products were determined to be impaired based on our analysis of the intangible assets carrying value and projected future cash flows. As a result of the impairment analysis, we recorded a write down of approximately $16.5 million related to these intangible assets. This write down included the following (in thousands): Intangible asset related to product not yet launched $ 14,000 Intangible asset related to authorized generic product 2,509 $ 16,509 Factors affecting the future cash flows of the product not yet launched included delays in the program to extend the expiration date of the product. We obtained the rights to the previously approved product during the fourth quarter of 2009. We deferred the launching of the product until we could extend the expiry dating. We have not yet been able to complete its testing of changes to the product that are expected to result in an extension of expiry dating. As a result, we are now pursuing the development of a similar product with another partner, as it is uncertain whether the originally acquired product will have extended expiry dating and be launched before the alternative product is approved and launched. The $14.0 million write down of the intangible asset represented the full carrying value of the intangible asset as of December 31, 2011. Amortization of the intangible asset had not commenced as the product had not yet launched. Factors affecting the future cash flows of the contract revenue related to the authorized generic product included projected net revenues for the authorized generic product for which we receive contract revenue being less than originally anticipated. Sale of LipoSonix to Solta Medical On November 1, 2011, we closed our sale of all issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Medicis Technologies Corporation (f/k/a LipoSonix, Inc.) (LipoSonix) to Solta Medical, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Solta), pursuant to the previously announced stock purchase agreement, dated September 12, 2011, by and between us and Solta (the Agreement). In connection therewith, on November 1, 2011, a separate subsidiary of Medicis transferred to Solta certain assets and assigned to Solta certain agreements, in each case related to LipoSonix. Solta paid us at the closing $15.5 million in cash, consisting of the initial purchase price of $15 million and a working capital adjustment based on the amount of working capital of LipoSonix at the closing. In addition, Solta has agreed to pay to us the following contingent payments, after the closing, subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement: (i) a one time cash payment of up to $20 million upon approval by the FDA of the second generation LIPOSONIXTM system prior to October 1, 2012 (the FDA approval was obtained in late October 2011, as a result of which Solta was required to make the $20 million payment to us on or prior to November 19, 2011. Solta made this payment to us on November 18, 2011); and 64 Table of Contents (ii) additional contingent cash and milestone payments, which will expire after approximately seven years, based upon, among other things, the achievement of year to year increases and specified targets in the adjusted net sales and adjusted gross profits of such LipoSonix products. At the closing, Solta also assumed our contingent payment obligations with respect to the former shareholders of LipoSonix, Inc. pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger among Medicis, LipoSonix, Inc. and the other parties thereto dated as of June 16, 2008. As a result of the sale of LipoSonix to Solta, we recognized a pretax gain of $27.9 million. Because of the difference between our book and tax basis of the common stock of LipoSonix, the transaction resulted in a $30.5 million loss for income tax purposes and an income tax benefit of $9.4 million. Acquisition of the Assets of Graceway On December 2, 2011, we completed an asset acquisition pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2011 (the Purchase Agreement), with Graceway Pharmaceuticals, LLC (Graceway) and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the Sellers). Graceway filed for bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on September 29, 2011. Graceways Board of Directors approved the Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereunder on November 18, 2011. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we acquired substantially all of the assets of the Sellers for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $455.9 million and agreed to assume certain limited post closing liabilities, primarily associated with contracts for commercial operations assumed by us (the Transaction). We did not assume any of Graceways debt. Graceways commercial pharmaceutical product portfolio includes on market prescription products and product development projects primarily in dermatology and womens health specialties. During December 2011, we began selling certain of the products acquired in the Transaction. New Managed Care Contracts Effective January 1, 2012 As part of our previously announced strategy to significantly reduce our exposure to managed care restrictions for SOLODYN&reg; and our other therapeutic products, we have entered into new, multi year contracts with a targeted managed care organization and a pharmacy benefit manager, which are effective as of January 1, 2012. We believe that our anticipated growth of SOLODYN&reg; will increase the risk of managed care restrictions, and we intend to profitably achieve total coverage and access for SOLODYN&reg; of at least 75% of the insurable lives of SOLODYN&reg; in the U.S. As a result of the successful completion of these new contracts, we accrued additional revenue reserves during the fourth quarter of approximately $12.7 million, which reduced our net revenues during the three months and year ended December 31, 2011. 65 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated. YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross profit (d) 90.7 90.4 90.2 Operating expenses 65.3 (a) 54.6 (b) 61.8 (c) Operating income 25.4 35.8 28.4 Other income (expense), net 0.2 Interest and investment (expense) income, net 0.6 Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 25.4 35.8 29.2 Income tax expense (10.6 ) (14.2 ) (12.5 ) Net income from continuing operations 14.8 21.6 16.7 Gain (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax benefit 2.7 (3.9 ) (3.3 ) Net income 17.5 % 17.7 % 13.4 % (a) Included in operating expenses is 20.0 million (2.8% of net revenues) paid to Lupin related to a product development agreement, $7.0 million (1.0% of net revenues) paid to Anacor related to a product development agreement, $5.5 million (0.8% of net revenues) paid related to a product development agreement with a privately held U.S. biotechnology company, $2.0 million (0.3% of net revenues) paid to a Medicis partner related to a product development agreement, $2.5 million (0.3% of net revenues) of legal settlements paid related to intellectual property disputes, $16.5 million (2.3% of net revenues) related to the write down of an intangible assets and $23.5 million (3.3% of net revenues) of compensation expense related to stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. (b) Included in operating expenses is $15.0 million (2.2% of net revenues) paid to a privately held U.S. biotechnology company related to a product development agreement, $3.9 million (0.6% of net revenues) paid to a Medicis partner related to a product development agreement, $2.3 million (0.3% of net revenues) related to the write down of an intangible asset related to certain non primary products and $16.3 million (2.3% of net revenues) of compensation expense related to stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. (c) Included in operating expenses is $12.0 million (2.1% of net revenues) paid to Impax related to a product development agreement, $10.0 million (1.8% of net revenues) paid to Revance related to a product development agreement, $5.3 million (0.9% of net revenues) paid to Glenmark related to a product development agreement and two license and settlement agreements, $5.0 million (0.9% of net revenues) paid to Perrigo related to a product development agreement and $18.0 million (3.2% of net revenues) of compensation expense related to stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. (d) Gross profit does not include amortization of the related intangibles as such expense is included in operating expenses. 66 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2010 Net Revenues The following table sets forth our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2010, along with the percentage of net revenues and percentage point change for each of our product categories (dollar amounts in millions): 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Net product revenues $ 716.8 $ 687.5 $ 29.3 4.3% Net contract revenues 4.3 8.4 (4.1 ) (48.8)% Total net revenues $ 721.1 $ 695.9 $ 25.2 3.6% 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Acne and acne related dermatological products $ 447.6 $ 482.3 $ (34.7 ) (7.2)% Non acne dermatological products 229.6 175.0 54.6 31.2% Non dermatological products (including contract revenues) 43.9 38.6 5.3 13.7% Total net revenues $ 721.1 $ 695.9 $ 25.2 3.6% 2011 2010 Change Acne and acne related dermatological products 62.1 % 69.3 % (7.2)% Non acne dermatological products 31.8 % 25.1 % 6.7% Non dermatological products (including contract revenues) 6.1 % 5.6 % 0.5% Total net revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Net revenues associated with our acne and acne related dermatological products decreased by $34.7 million, or 7.2%, during 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily as a result of a decrease in net revenues of TRIAZ&reg;. The decrease in net revenues of TRIAZ&reg; was primarily due to our early 2011 discontinuation of TRIAZ&reg; as a result of the FDAs requirement that, effective March 4, 2011, prescription benzoyl peroxide products that are not approved through a New Drug Application, such as TRIAZ&reg;, not be sold as prescription products. Net revenues of SOLODYN&reg; decreased by approximately 1.0%, primarily due to the impact of new managed care agreements entered into in December 2011, which increased the amount of reserves for managed care rebates as of December 31, 2011. The impact of the new managed care agreements was partially offset by an increase in gross sales of SOLODYN&reg; due to increased demand and the FDA approval of new 55mg, 80mg and 105mg strengths of SOLODYN&reg; on August 27, 2010. Net revenues associated with our non acne dermatological products increased by $54.6 million, or 31.2%, during 2011 as compared to 2010, primarily due to increased sales of DYSPORT&reg;, RESTYLANE&reg;, PERLANE&reg;, VANOS&reg; and ZYCLARA&reg;. ZYCLARA&reg; was acquired on December 2, 2011 as part of the acquisition of the assets of Graceway. Net revenues associated with our non dermatological products increased by $5.3 million, or 13.7%, during 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to an increase in sales of BUPHENYL&reg; and AMMONUL&reg;, partially offset by a decrease in contract revenues. Gross Profit Gross profit represents our net revenues less our cost of product revenue. Our cost of product revenue includes our acquisition cost for the products we purchase from our third party manufacturers and royalty payments made to third parties. Amortization of intangible assets related to products sold is not included in gross profit. 67 Table of Contents Amortization expense related to these intangibles for 2011 and 2010 was approximately $24.7 million and $21.0 million, respectively. Product mix plays a significant role in our quarterly and annual gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Different products generate different gross profit margins, and the relative sales mix of higher gross profit products and lower gross profit products can affect our total gross profit. The following table sets forth our gross profit for 2011 and 2010, along with the percentage of net revenues represented by such gross profit (dollar amounts in millions): 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Gross profit $ 654.2 $ 629.1 $ 25.1 4.0 % % of net revenues 90.7 % 90.4 % The increase in gross profit during 2011 as compared to 2010 is primarily due to the $25.2 million increase in net revenues. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our selling, general and administrative expenses for 2011 and 2010, along with the percentage of net revenues represented by selling, general and administrative expenses (dollar amounts in millions): 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 353.4 $ 305.0 $ 48.4 15.9 % % of net revenues 49.0 % 43.8 % Share based compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative $ 22.3 $ 15.6 $ 6.7 42.9 % Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $48.4 million, or 15.9%, during 2011 as compared to 2010, and increased as a percentage of net revenues from 43.8% during 2010 to 49.0% during 2011. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $28.0 million in personnel expenses, primarily driven by increased headcount. The increase in personnel costs also included a $6.7 million increase in stock compensation expense, primarily related to the revaluation of SARs awards based on changes in the market price of our common stock, and a $4.1 million increase from the establishment of a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) as of June 1, 2011. Other increases in selling, general and administrative expenses included a $7.3 million increase in promotion costs, a $9.4 million increase in professional fees and costs, including $2.5 million of legal settlements paid related to intellectual property disputes, and an increase of $3.7 million of other selling, general and administrative costs. Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses for 2011 and 2010 (dollar amounts in millions): 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 68.4 $ 44.3 $ 24.1 54.4 % Charges included in research and development $ 35.5 $ 18.9 $ 16.6 87.8 % Share based compensation expense included in research and development $ 1.2 $ 0.6 $ 0.6 100.0 % Included in research and development expenses for 2011 was a $20.0 million payment related to a product development agreement with Lupin, a $7.0 million payment to Anacor related to a product development agreement, a $5.5 million payment related to a product development agreement with a privately held U.S. biotechnology company and $2.0 million paid to a Medicis partner related to a product development agreement. 68 Table of Contents Included in research and development expenses for 2010 was $15.0 million (in aggregate) of up front and milestone payments to a privately held U.S. biotechnology company related to a product development agreement and $3.9 million (in aggregate) of milestone payments to a Medicis partner related to a product development agreement. We expect research and development expenses to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of the achievement of development milestones under license and development agreements, as well as the timing of other development projects and the funds available to support these projects. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses during 2011 were $32.6 million, as compared to $28.1 million during 2010, primarily due to increased amortization expense as a result of $335.8 million of intangible assets acquired on December 2, 2011 as part of the acquisition of the assets of Graceway. Amortization expense is expected to be significantly higher during 2012, and in subsequent years, as compared to 2011, as 2011 only included one month of amortization expense related to these acquired intangible assets. Impairment of Long lived Assets During the year ended December 31, 2011, intangible assets related to certain of our products were determined to be impaired based on our analysis of the intangible assets carrying value and projected future cash flows. As a result of the impairment analysis, we recorded a write down of approximately $16.5 million related to these intangible assets. This write down included the following (in thousands): Intangible asset related to product not yet launched $ 14,000 Intangible asset related to authorized generic product 2,509 $ 16,509 Factors affecting the future cash flows of the product not yet launched included delays in the program to extend the expiration date of the product. We obtained the rights to the previously approved product during the fourth quarter of 2009. We deferred the launching of the product until we could extend the expiry dating. We have not yet been able to complete its testing of changes to the product that are expected to result in an extension of expiry dating. As a result, we are now pursuing the development of a similar product with another partner, as it is uncertain whether the originally acquired product will have extended expiry dating and be launched before the alternative product is approved and launched. The $14.0 million write down of the intangible asset represented the full carrying value of the intangible asset as of December 31, 2011. Amortization of the intangible asset had not commenced as the product had not yet launched. Factors affecting the future cash flows of the contract revenue related to the authorized generic product included projected net revenues for the authorized generic product for which we receive contract revenue being less than originally anticipated. During the year ended December 31, 2010, an intangible asset related to certain of our non primary products was determined to be impaired based on our analysis of the intangible assets carrying value and projected future cash flows. As a result of the impairment analysis, we recorded a write down of approximately $2.3 million related to this intangible asset. Factors affecting the future cash flows of the non primary products related to the intangible asset include the planned discontinuation of the products, which were not significant components of our operations. 69 Table of Contents Interest and Investment Income Interest and investment income during 2011 increased $0.4 million, or 9.8%, to $4.5 million from $4.1 million during 2010, due to an increase in the amount of funds available for investment during 2011. During the three months ended December 31, 2011, we used $455.9 million for the acquisition of the assets of Graceway, and $150.1 million to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock. These transactions will reduce the amount of funds we will have available for investment during 2012 as compared to 2011. Interest Expense Interest expense during 2011 increased $0.5 million, or 11.9%, to $4.7 million from $4.2 million during 2010. Our interest expense during 2011 and 2010 consisted of interest expense on our Old Notes, which accrue interest at 2.5% per annum, and our New Notes, which accrue interest at 1.5% per annum. In addition, during 2011, approximately $0.4 million of contingent interest was paid related to our Old Notes. See Note 11 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion on the Old Notes and New Notes. Other Expense, net Other expense of $0.3 million recognized during 2010 represented an other than temporary impairment on an asset backed security investment. Income Tax Expense The following table sets forth our income tax expense and the resulting effective tax rate for continuing operations stated as a percentage of pre tax income for 2011 and 2010 (dollar amounts in millions): 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Income tax expense $ 76.2 $ 98.6 $ (22.4 ) (22.7 )% Effective tax rate 41.6 % 39.6 % The effective tax rate for 2011 and 2010 reflects the impact of the non deductibility of payments associated with a product development agreement with a privately held U.S. biotechnology company. The effective tax rate for 2011 also reflects an accrual of approximately $5.0 million related to an uncertain tax position. Gain (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Tax Benefit Gain from discontinued operations, net of income tax benefit, was $19.6 million during 2011, as compared to a loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax benefit of $27.0 million during 2010. Included in the gain recognized during 2011 was a $27.9 million pre tax gain on the sale of LipoSonix to Solta, as well as a $9.4 million income tax benefit on the sale, as the transaction generated a $30.5 million loss for income tax purposes as a result of the difference between our book and tax basis of the common stock of LipoSonix. See Note 3 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 70 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net Revenues The following table sets forth our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2009, along with the percentage of net revenues and percentage point change for each of our product categories (dollar amounts in millions): 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Net product revenues $ 687.5 $ 560.5 $ 127.0 22.7% Net contract revenues 8.4 10.1 (1.7 ) (16.8)% Total net revenues $ 695.9 $ 570.6 $ 125.3 22.0% 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Acne and acne related dermatological products $ 482.3 $ 398.8 $ 83.5 20.9% Non acne dermatological products 175.0 133.6 41.4 31.0% Non dermatological products (including contract revenues) 38.6 38.2 0.4 1.0% Total net revenues $ 695.9 $ 570.6 $ 125.3 22.0% 2010 2009 Change Acne and acne related dermatological products 69.3 % 69.9 % (0.6)% Non acne dermatological products 25.1 % 23.4 % 1.7% Non dermatological products (including contract revenues) 5.6 % 6.7 % (1.1)% Total net revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % % Net revenues associated with our acne and acne related dermatological products increased by $83.5 million, or 20.9%, during 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily as a result of increased sales of SOLODYN&reg; and ZIANA&reg;, both of which generated strong prescription growth. Net revenues of SOLODYN&reg; during 2009 were negatively impacted by the unauthorized one day launch of Tevas generic versions of SOLODYN&reg; units that were sold into the distribution channel prior to the consummation of a Settlement Agreement with us on March 18, 2009. These units caused wholesalers to reduce ordering levels of SOLODYN&reg; and caused us to increase our reserves for sales returns and consumer rebates during the first quarter of 2009. During the third quarter of 2010, we had initial sales of new 55mg, 80mg and 105mg strengths of SOLODYN&reg; after they were approved by the FDA on August 27, 2010, and during the third quarter of 2009, we launched new 65mg and 115mg strengths of SOLODYN&reg; after they were approved by the FDA. Net revenues associated with our non acne dermatological products increased by $41.4 million, or 31.0%, during 2010 as compared to 2009, primarily due to sales of DYSPORT&reg;, which was launched in June 2009, and increased sales of RESTYLANE&reg; and VANOS&reg;, partially offset by a decrease in sales of LOPROX&reg;, which was negatively impacted by generic competition. RESTYLANE L&reg; and PERLANE L&reg; were launched during February 2010 following FDA approval on January 29, 2010. Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, as a result of certain amendments made to our distribution services agreement with McKesson, our exclusive U.S. distributor of our aesthetics products RESTYLANE&reg;, PERLANE&reg; and DYSPORT&reg;, we began recognizing revenue on these products upon shipment from McKesson to physicians. As a result, aesthetic product net revenues were negatively impacted during the first quarter of 2009 in anticipation of this change in revenue recognition. Gross Profit Gross profit represents our net revenues less our cost of product revenue. Our cost of product revenue includes our acquisition cost for the products we purchase from our third party manufacturers and royalty payments made 71 Table of Contents to third parties. Amortization of intangible assets related to products sold is not included in gross profit. Amortization expense related to these intangibles for 2010 and 2009 was approximately $21.0 million and $21.7 million, respectively. Product mix plays a significant role in our quarterly and annual gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Different products generate different gross profit margins, and the relative sales mix of higher gross profit products and lower gross profit products can affect our total gross profit. The following table sets forth our gross profit for 2010 and 2009, along with the percentage of net revenues represented by such gross profit (dollar amounts in millions): 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Gross profit $ 629.1 $ 514.6 $ 114.5 22.3 % % of net revenues 90.4 % 90.2 % The increase in gross profit during 2010 as compared to 2009 is primarily due to the $125.3 million increase in net revenues. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our selling, general and administrative expenses for 2010 and 2009, along with the percentage of net revenues represented by selling, general and administrative expenses (dollar amounts in millions): 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 305.0 $ 266.9 $ 38.1 14.3 % % of net revenues 43.8 % 46.8 % Share based compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expense $ 15.6 $ 17.5 $ (1.9 ) (10.9 )% Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $38.1 million, or 14.3%, during 2010 as compared to 2009, but decreased as a percentage of net revenues from 46.8% during 2009 to 43.8% during 2010. Included in this increase was a $14.9 million increase in personnel costs, primarily due to an increase in the number of employees, the effect of the annual salary increase that occurred during February 2010 and $2.9 million of severance expense related to the departure of an executive employee. Also included in the $38.1 million increase from 2009 was a $13.9 million increase in professional and consulting costs, a $7.3 million increase in promotion expenses, primarily related to the promotion of DYSPORT&reg; and an increase of $2.0 million of other selling, general and administrative costs. The decrease of selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues during 2010 as compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $125.3 million increase in net revenues. Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses for 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in millions): 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 44.3 $ 58.1 $ (13.8 ) (23.8 )% Charges included in research and development $ 18.9 $ 32.5 $ (13.6 ) (41.8 )% Share based compensation expense included in research and development $ 0.6 $ 0.5 $ 0.1 20.0 % Included in research and development expenses for 2010 was $15.0 million (in aggregate) of up front and milestone payments to a privately held U.S. biotechnology company related to a product development agreement and $3.9 million (in aggregate) of milestone payments to a Medicis partner related to a product development agreement. 72 Table of Contents Included in research and development expenses for 2009 was a $10.0 million up front payment to Revance related to a product development agreement, $12.0 million (in aggregate) of milestone payments to Impax related to a product development agreement, a $5.0 million up front payment to Glenmark related to a product development agreement, $5.0 million (in aggregate) of up front and milestone payments to Perrigo related to a product development agreement and a $0.5 million milestone payment made to a U.S. company related to a product development agreement. We expect research and development expenses to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of the achievement of development milestones under license and development agreements, as well as the timing of other development projects and the funds available to support these projects. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses during 2010 increased $0.2 million, or 0.7%, to $28.1 million from $27.9 million during 2009. An increase related to amortization of the $75.0 million milestone payment made to Ipsen during the second quarter of 2009 upon the FDAs approval of DYSPORT&reg;, which was capitalized as an intangible asset, was offset by the amortization expense related to intangible assets related to Medicis Pediatrics, Inc., which was sold to BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. during the second quarter of 2009, not being incurred during 2010. Impairment of Long lived Assets During the year ended December 31, 2010, an intangible asset related to certain of our non primary products was determined to be impaired based on our analysis of the intangible assets carrying value and projected future cash flows. As a result of the impairment analysis, we recorded a write down of approximately $2.3 million related to this intangible asset. Factors affecting the future cash flows of the non primary products related to the intangible asset include the planned discontinuation of the products, which were not significant components of our operations. Interest and Investment Income Interest and investment income during 2010 decreased $3.5 million, or 46.0%, to $4.1 million from $7.6 million during 2009, due to a decrease in the interest rates achieved by our invested funds during 2010. Interest Expense Interest expense during each of 2010 and 2009 was $4.2 million. Our interest expense during 2010 and 2009 consisted of interest expense on our Old Notes, which accrue interest at 2.5% per annum, and our New Notes, which accrue interest at 1.5% per annum. See Note 11, Contingent Convertible Senior Notes in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, for further discussion on the Old Notes and New Notes. Other Expense (Income), net Other expense of $0.3 million recognized during 2010 represented an other than temporary impairment on an asset backed security investment. Other income, net, of $0.9 million recognized during 2009 primarily represented a $2.2 million gain on the sale of Medicis Pediatrics to BioMarin, which closed during June 2009 and a $1.5 million gain on the sale of 73 Table of Contents certain auction rate floating securities, partially offset by a $2.9 million reduction in the carrying value of our investment in Revance as a result of a reduction in the estimated net realizable value of the investment using the hypothetical liquidation at book value approach as of March 31, 2009. The $1.5 million gain on the sale of certain auction rate floating securities was the result of a transaction whereby the broker through which we purchased auction rate floating securities agreed to repurchase from us three auction rate floating securities with an aggregate par value of $7.0 million, at par. The adjusted basis of these securities was $5.5 million, in aggregate, as a result of an other than temporary impairment loss of $1.5 million recorded during the year ended December 31, 2008. The realized gain of $1.5 million was recognized as other income during 2009. Income Tax Expense The following table sets forth our income tax expense and the resulting effective tax rate stated as a percentage of pre tax income for 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in millions): 2010 2009 $ Change % Change Income tax expense $ 98.6 $ 71.2 $ 27.4 38.5 % Effective tax rate 39.6 % 42.9 % The effective rate for 2010 reflects the impact of the non deductibility of $15.0 million (in aggregate) of up front and milestone payments associated with a product development agreement with a privately held U.S. biotechnology company. The effective tax rate for 2009 reflects a $9.0 million discrete tax expense due to the taxable gain on the sale of Medicis Pediatrics. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Tax Benefit Loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax benefit, was $27.0 million during 2010, as compared to $18.8 million during 2009. See Note 3 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview The following table highlights selected cash flow components for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, and selected balance sheet components as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollar amounts in millions): 2011 2010 $ Change % Change Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 172.1 $ 182.3 $ (10.2 ) (5.6 )% Investing activities (234.0 ) (172.3 ) (61.7 ) 35.8 % Financing activities (113.7 ) 0.1 (113.8 ) (113,800.0 )% Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2010 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments $ 288.3 $ 703.6 $ (415.3 ) (59.0 )% Working capital (23.6 ) 623.0 (646.6 ) (103.8 )% Long term investments 40.3 21.5 18.8 87.4 % 2.5% contingent convertible senior notes due 2032 169.1 169.1 % 1.5% contingent convertible senior notes due 2033 0.2 0.2 % 74 Table of Contents Working Capital Working capital as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, consisted of the following (dollar amounts in millions): Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2010 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments $ 288.3 $ 703.6 $ (415.3 ) (59.0 )% Accounts receivable, net 193.0 130.6 62.4 47.8 % Inventories, net 34.5 35.3 (0.8 ) (2.3 )% Deferred tax assets, net 12.7 65.1 (52.4 ) (80.5 )% Other current assets 22.6 15.2 7.4 48.7 % Assets held for sale from discontinued operations 13.1 (13.1 ) (100.0 )% Total current assets 551.1 962.9 (411.8 ) (42.8 )% Accounts payable 54.1 41.0 13.1 32.0 % Current portion of contingent convertible senior notes 169.1 169.1 100.0 % Reserve for sales returns 60.0 60.7 (0.7 ) (1.2 )% Accrued consumer rebate and loyalty programs 139.9 101.7 38.2 37.6 % Managed care and Medicaid reserves 72.8 49.4 23.4 47.4 % Income taxes payable 4.6 (4.6 ) (100.0 )% Other current liabilities 78.8 75.2 3.6 4.8 % Liabilities held for sale from discontinued operations 7.3 (7.3 ) (100.0 )% Total current liabilities 574.7 339.9 234.8 69.1 % Working capital $ (23.6 ) $ 623.0 $ (646.6 ) (103.8 )% We had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $288.3 million and negative working capital of $23.6 million at December 31, 2011, as compared to $703.6 million and positive working capital of $623.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. The decreases were primarily due to the $455.9 million of cash used to acquire the assets of Graceway and $150.1 million of cash used to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock during 2011, partially offset by $172.1 million of operating cash flow generated during 2011. The decrease in working capital was also negatively impacted by the classification of our Old Notes as a current liability as of December 31, 2011, as holders of the Old Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their Old Notes for cash on June 4, 2012. The Old Notes were classified as a long term liability as of December 31, 2010. Accounts receivable, net, increased $62.4 million, or 47.8%, from $130.6 million at December 31, 2010 to $193.0 million at December 31, 2011. The increase was primarily due to a $61.4 million increase in gross sales during the month of December 2011 as compared to the month of December 2010. As our standard payment terms are 30 days, orders that occur during the last month of a quarter are typically not due for payment until after the end of the quarter. Gross sales during the month of December 2011 were $201.8 million, or 54.8% of the total gross sales for the fourth quarter of 2011, as compared to gross sales during the month of December 2010 of $140.4 million, or 45.1% of total gross sales for the fourth quarter of 2010. Days sales outstanding, calculated as accounts receivable, net, as of the end of the reporting period, divided by total gross sales for the quarter, multiplied by the number of days in the quarter, was 48 days as of December 31, 2011 as compared to 39 days as of December 31, 2010. The increase in days sales outstanding was primarily due to the timing of orders placed within their inventory management agreement terms by customers during the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. Although more of the customers purchases during the fourth quarter of 2011 occurred during the last month of the quarter as compared to the last month of the fourth quarter of 2010, their total purchases for the fourth quarter of 2011 were consistent with previous quarters, excluding the impact of our initial sales of Graceway products that were acquired on December 2, 2011. Gross sales during the month of December 2011 included our initial sales of Graceway products, which were not yet due for payment and therefore were included in outstanding accounts receivable, net as of December 31, 2011. We sell our products primarily to major wholesalers and retail chain drugstores. We have distribution services agreements with our two largest wholesale customers. We review the supply levels of our significant products sold to major 75 Table of Contents wholesalers by reviewing periodic inventory reports that are supplied to us by our major wholesalers in accordance with the distribution services agreements. We rely wholly upon our wholesale and retail chain drugstore customers to effect the distribution allocation of substantially all of our prescription products. We believe that our major wholesalers are reducing inventory levels during the first two months of the quarter and purchasing up to the distribution agreement levels during the last month of the quarter. Gross sales of our products are at or below reported prescription levels. We also defer the recognition of revenue for certain sales of inventory into the distribution channel that are in excess of eight (8) weeks of projected demand, and we defer the recognition of revenue of our aesthetics products DYSPORT&reg;, PERLANE&reg; and RESTYLANE&reg;, until our exclusive U.S. distributor, McKesson, ships these products to physicians. There has not been a significant change in inventories in the distribution channel during the quarter ended December 31, 2011. Management believes existing cash and short term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should be sufficient to meet operating requirements for the foreseeable future. Our cash and short term investments are available for dividends, milestone payments related to our product development collaborations, strategic investments, acquisitions of companies or products complementary to our business, the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, repurchases of our outstanding securities and other potential large scale needs. In addition, we may consider incurring additional indebtedness and issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt or for general corporate purposes. If a material acquisition or investment is completed, our operating results and financial condition could change materially in future periods. However, no assurance can be given that additional funds will be available on satisfactory terms, or at all, to fund such activities. As of December 31, 2011, our short term investments included $12.8 million of auction rate floating securities. Our auction rate floating securities are debt instruments with a long term maturity and with an interest rate that is reset in short intervals through auctions. During the three months ended March 31, 2008, we were informed that there was insufficient demand at auction for the auction rate floating securities, and since that time we have been unable to liquidate our holdings in such securities. As a result, these affected auction rate floating securities are now considered illiquid, and we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the holder at maturity or until a future auction on these investments is successful. During 2011, we liquidated $11.2 million of our auction rate floating securities at par. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $172.1 million, compared to cash provided by operating activities of approximately $182.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. The following is a summary of the primary components of cash provided by operating activities during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in millions): 2011 2010 Income taxes paid $ (59.9 ) $ (81.1 ) Payment made to Lupin related to a development agreement (20.0 ) Payment made to Anacor related to a development agreement (7.0 ) Payments made to a privately held U.S. biotechnology company related to a development agreement (5.5 ) (15.0 ) Payments made to a Medicis partner related to a development agreement (2.0 ) (3.9 ) Increase in accounts receivable (64.6 ) (36.9 ) Increase in accrued consumer rebates and loyalty programs 38.3 28.4 Other cash provided by operating activities 292.8 290.8 Cash provided by operating activities $ 172.1 $ 182.3 76 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $234.0 million, compared to net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2010, of $172.3 million. During 2011, we used $455.9 million to acquire the assets of Graceway, and we received $35.5 million from the sale of LipoSonix to Solta. Other investing activities during 2011 and 2010 were primarily the net purchases and sales of our short term and long term investments during the respective periods. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $113.7 million, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. During 2011, we used $150.1 million to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock. Proceeds from the exercise of stock options were $58.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $16.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. Dividends paid during the year ended December 31, 2011, were $18.6 million, compared to dividends paid during the year ended December 31, 2010, of $13.2 million. Contingent Convertible Senior Notes and Other Long Term Commitments We have two outstanding series of Contingent Convertible Senior Notes, consisting of $169.1 million principal amount of 2.5% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2032 (the Old Notes) and $0.2 million principal amount of 1.5% Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due 2033 (the New Notes). The New Notes and the Old Notes are unsecured and do not contain any restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness or the repurchase of our securities, and do not contain any financial covenants. The Old Notes do not contain any restrictions on the payment of dividends. The New Notes required an adjustment to the conversion price if the cumulative aggregate of all current and prior dividend increases above $0.025 per share would result in at least a one percent (1%) increase in the conversion price. This threshold was not reached and no adjustment to the conversion price has been made. On June 4, 2012 and 2017, or upon the occurrence of a change in control, holders of the Old Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their Old Notes for cash. On June 4, 2013 and 2018, or upon the occurrence of a change in control, holders of the New Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their New Notes for cash. Under GAAP, if an obligation is due on demand or will be due on demand within one year from the balance sheet date, even though liquidation may not be expected within that period, it should be classified as a current liability. Accordingly, the outstanding balance of Old Notes along with the deferred tax liability associated with accelerated interest deductions on the Old Notes will be classified as a current liability during the respective twelve month periods prior to June 4, 2012 and June 4, 2017. As of December 31, 2011, $169.1 million of the Old Notes and $62.5 million of deferred tax liabilities were classified as current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. The $62.5 million of deferred tax liabilities were included within current deferred tax assets, net. If all of the Old Notes are put back to us on June 4, 2012, we would be required to pay $169.1 million in outstanding principal, plus accrued interest. We would also be required to pay the accumulated deferred tax liability related to the Old Notes. During the quarters ended June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2011, the Old Notes met the criteria for the right of conversion into shares of our Class A common stock. This right of conversion of the holders of Old Notes was triggered by the stock closing above $31.96 on 20 of the last 30 trading days and the last trading day of the quarters ended June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2011. During the quarters ended September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2011, no holders of Old Notes converted their Old Notes into shares of our Class A common stock. The holders of Old Notes have this conversion right only until March 31, 2012. At the end of each future quarter, the conversion rights will be reassessed in accordance with the bond indenture agreement to determine if the conversion trigger rights have been achieved. During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, the New Notes did not meet the criteria for the right of conversion. 77 Table of Contents Except for the New Notes, we had only $45.0 million of long term liabilities at December 31, 2011, and, except for the Old Notes, we had $405.7 million of current liabilities at December 31, 2011. Our other commitments and planned expenditures consist principally of payments we will make in connection with strategic collaborations and research and development expenditures, and we will continue to invest in sales and marketing infrastructure. Dividends We do not have a dividend policy. Prior to July 2003, we had not paid a cash dividend on our common stock. Since July 2003, we have paid quarterly cash dividends aggregating approximately $78.6 million on our common stock. In addition, on December 14, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend of $0.08 per issued and outstanding share of common stock, which was paid on January 31, 2012, to our stockholders of record at the close of business on January 3, 2012. Any future determinations to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Fair Value Measurements We utilize unobservable (Level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of our auction rate floating security investments, which totaled $12.8 million at December 31, 2011. These securities were included in long term investments at December 31, 2011. Our auction rate floating securities are classified as available for sale securities and are reflected at fair value. In prior periods, due to the auction process which took place every 30 35 days for most securities, quoted market prices were readily available, which would qualify as Level 1 under ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure. However, due to events in credit markets that began during the first quarter of 2008, the auction events for most of these instruments failed, and, therefore, we determined the estimated fair values of these securities, beginning in the first quarter of 2008, utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis. These analyses consider, among other items, the collateralization underlying the security investments, the expected future cash flows, including the final maturity, associated with the securities, and the expectation of the next time the security is expected to have a successful auction. These securities were also compared, when possible, to other observable market data with similar characteristics to the securities held by us. Due to these events, we reclassified these instruments as Level 3 during the first quarter of 2008. On July 14, 2009, the broker through which we purchased auction rate floating securities agreed to repurchase from us three auction rate floating securities with an aggregate par value of $7.0 million, at par. The adjusted basis of these securities was $5.5 million, in aggregate, as a result of an other than temporary impairment loss of $1.5 million recorded during the year ended December 31, 2008. The realized gain of $1.5 million was recognized in other (income) expense during the three months ended September 30, 2009. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2011, we are not involved in any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. 78 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2011, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes certain other purchase obligations as discussed below (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than1 Year More Than1 Year andLess Than3 Years More Than3 Years andLess Than5 Years More Than5 Years Long term debt $ 169,326 $ 169,145 $ 181 $ $ Interest on long term debt 86,745 4,231 8,463 8,463 65,588 Operating leases 39,371 4,453 9,416 9,298 16,204 Unrealized income tax positions 283 283 Other purchase obligations and commitments 867 173 347 347 Total contractual obligations $ 296,592 $ 178,285 $ 18,407 $ 18,108 $ 81,792 The long term debt consists of our Old Notes and New Notes. We may redeem some or all of the Old Notes and New Notes at any time on or after June 11, 2007 and June 11, 2008, respectively, at a redemption price, payable in cash, of 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any. Holders of the Old Notes and New Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Old Notes on June 4, 2012 and 2017, and New Notes on June 4, 2013 and 2018, or upon a change in control, as defined in the indenture agreements governing the Old Notes and New Notes, at 100% of the principal amount of the Old Notes and New Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the repurchase, payable in cash. As of December 31, 2011, $169.1 million of the Old Notes were classified in the Less than 1 year category as the holders of the Old Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Old Notes on June 4, 2012, which is less than 1 year from the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. As of December 31, 2011, $0.2 million of New Notes were classified in the More than 1 year and less than 3 years category as the holders of the New Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their New Notes on June 4, 2013, which is more than 1 year but less than 3 years from the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. Interest on long term debt includes interest payable on our Old Notes and New Notes, assuming the Old Notes and New Notes will not have any redemptions or conversions into shares of our Class A common stock until their respective maturities in 2032 and 2033, but does not include any contingent interest. The amount of interest ultimately paid in future years could change if any of the Old Notes or New Notes are converted or redeemed and or if contingent interest becomes payable if certain future criteria are met. Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments due under research and development and consulting contracts. We have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of certain product development and license agreements. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and or commercial milestones. Because the achievement and timing of these milestones are not fixed or reasonably determinable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and are not included in the above table. The total amount of potential future milestone payments related to development and license agreements is approximately $460.7 million. Purchase orders for raw materials, finished goods and other goods and services are not included in the above table. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are 79 Table of Contents enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs, based on expected demand, and are fulfilled by our vendors, in most cases, with relatively short timetables. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or finished goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our short term expected requirements. We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts were not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. We have excluded from the table above approximately $5.6 million in reserves for uncertain income tax positions, as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which cash settlement with the respective taxing authority will occur, if any. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates related to sales allowances, chargebacks, rebates, returns and other pricing adjustments, depreciation and amortization and other contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other factors related to each circumstance. Actual results could differ from those estimates based upon future events, which could include, among other risks, changes in the regulations governing the manner in which we sell our products, changes in the health care environment and managed care consumption patterns. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and are important in understanding our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenue from our product sales is recognized pursuant to ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. Accordingly, revenue is recognized when all four of the following criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery of the products has occurred; (iii) the selling price is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured. Our customers consist primarily of large pharmaceutical wholesalers who sell directly into the retail channel. We do not provide any material forms of price protection to our wholesale customers and permit product returns if the product is damaged, or, depending on the customer and product, if it is returned within six months prior to expiration or up to 12 months after expiration. Our customers consist principally of financially viable wholesalers, and depending on the customer, revenue is recognized based upon shipment (FOB shipping point) or receipt (FOB destination), net of estimated provisions. As a result of certain amendments made to our distribution services agreement with McKesson, our exclusive U.S. distributor of our aesthetics products DYSPORT&reg;, PERLANE&reg; and RESTYLANE&reg;, we began recognizing revenue on these products upon the shipment from McKesson to physicians beginning in the second quarter of 2009. As a general practice, we do not ship prescription product that has less than 12 months until its expiration date. We also authorize returns for damaged products and credits for expired products in accordance with our returned goods policy and procedures. The shelf life associated with our products is up to 36 months depending on the product. The majority of our prescription products have a shelf life of approximately 18 36 months. 80 Table of Contents We enter into licensing arrangements with other parties whereby we receive contract revenue based on the terms of the agreement. The timing of revenue recognition is dependent on the level of our continuing involvement in the manufacture and delivery of licensed products. If we have continuing involvement, the revenue is deferred and recognized on a straight line basis over the period of continuing involvement. In addition, if our licensing arrangements require no continuing involvement and payments are merely based on the passage of time, we assess such payments for revenue recognition under the collectibility criteria of ASC 605. Items Deducted From Gross Revenue Provisions for estimated product returns, sales discounts and chargebacks are established as a reduction of product sales revenues at the time such revenues are recognized. Provisions for managed care and Medicaid rebates and consumer rebate and loyalty programs are established as a reduction of product sales revenues at the later of the date at which revenue is recognized or the date at which the sales incentive is offered. In addition, we defer revenue for certain sales of inventory into the distribution channel that are in excess of eight (8) weeks of projected demand. These deductions from gross revenue are established by us as our best estimate based on historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves, including but not limited to, prescription data, industry trends, competitive developments and estimated inventory in the distribution channel. Our estimates of inventory in the distribution channel are based on inventory information reported to us by our major wholesale customers for which we have inventory management agreements, historical shipment and return information from our accounting records and data on prescriptions filled, which we purchase from IMS Health, Inc., one of the leading providers of prescription based information. We regularly monitor internal as well as external data from our wholesalers, in order to assess the reasonableness of the information obtained from external sources. We also utilize projected prescription demand for our products, as well as, our internal information regarding our products. These deductions from gross revenue are generally reflected either as a direct reduction to accounts receivable through an allowance, as a reserve within current liabilities, or as an addition to accrued expenses. We identify product returns by their manufacturing lot number. Because we manufacture in bulk, lot sizes can be large and, as a result, sales of any individual lot may occur over several periods. As a result, we are unable to specify if actual returns or credits relate to a sale that occurred in the current period or a prior period, and therefore, we cannot specify how much of the provision recorded relates to sales made in prior periods. However, we believe the process discussed above, including the tracking of returns by lot, and the availability of other internal and external data allows us to reasonably estimate the level of product returns, as well as estimate the level of expected credits associated with rebates or chargebacks. Our accounting policies for revenue recognition have a significant impact on our reported results and rely on certain estimates that require complex and subjective judgment on the part of our management. If the levels of product returns, inventory in the distribution channel, cash discounts, chargebacks, managed care and Medicaid rebates and consumer rebate and loyalty programs fluctuate significantly and or if our estimates do not adequately reserve for these reductions of gross product revenues, our reported net product revenues could be negatively affected. 81 Table of Contents The following table shows the activity of each reserve, associated with the various sales provisions that serve to reduce our accounts receivable balance or increase our accrued expenses or deferred revenue, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 (dollars in thousands): Reservefor SalesReturns DeferredRevenue SalesDiscountsReserve ChargebacksReserve ManagedCare &MedicaidRebatesReserve ConsumerRebateandLoyaltyPrograms Total Balance at Dec. 31, 2008 $ 59,611 $ 714 $ 1,248 $ 471 $ 16,956 $ 28,448 $ 107,448 Actual (29,498 ) (18,042 ) (2,812 ) (68,578 ) (168,196 ) (287,126 ) Provision 17,949 549 18,954 3,029 98,700 213,059 352,240 Balance at Dec. 31, 2009 $ 48,062 $ 1,263 $ 2,160 $ 688 $ 47,078 $ 73,311 $ 172,562 Actual (24,535 ) (22,728 ) (4,756 ) (100,229 ) (280,047 ) (432,295 ) Provision 37,165 (681 ) 23,398 5,219 102,526 308,414 476,041 Balance at Dec. 31, 2010 $ 60,692 $ 582 $ 2,830 $ 1,151 $ 49,375 $ 101,678 $ 216,308 Actual (44,994 ) (26,207 ) (6,145 ) (101,993 ) (409,475 ) (588,814 ) Provision 44,326 (371 ) 27,514 7,044 125,419 447,745 651,677 Balance at Dec. 31, 2011 $ 60,024 $ 211 $ 4,137 $ 2,050 $ 72,801 $ 139,948 $ 279,171 Reserve for Sales Returns We account for returns of product by establishing an allowance based on our estimate of revenues recorded for which the related products are expected to be returned in the future. We estimate the rate of future product returns for our established products based on our historical experience, the relative risk of return based on expiration date, and other qualitative factors that could impact the level of future product returns, such as competitive developments, product discontinuations and our introduction of similar new products. Historical experience and the other qualitative factors are assessed on a product specific basis as part of our compilation of our estimate of future product returns. We also estimate inventory in the distribution channel by monitoring inventories held by our distributors, as well as prescription trends to help us assess whether historical rates of return continue to be appropriate given current conditions. We estimate returns of new products primarily based on our historical acceptance of our new product introductions by our customers and product returns experience of similar products, products that have similar characteristics at various stages of their life cycle, and other available information pertinent to the intended use and marketing of the new product. Changes due to our competitors price movements have not adversely affected us. We do not provide material pricing incentives to our distributors that are intended to have them assume additional inventory levels beyond what is customary in their ordinary course of business. Our actual experience and the qualitative factors that we use to determine the necessary accrual for future product returns are susceptible to change based on unforeseen events and uncertainties. We assess the trends that could affect our estimates and make changes to the accrual quarterly when it appears product returns may differ from our original estimates. The provision for product returns was $37.2 million, or 3.1% of gross product sales, and $17.9 million, or 1.9% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The reserve for product returns increased $12.6 million, from $48.1 million as of December 31, 2009 to $60.7 million as of 82 Table of Contents December 31, 2010. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods and in the reserve during the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily related to additional estimated required reserves for newly launched products. The provision for product returns was $44.3 million, or 3.2% of gross product sales, and $37.2 million, or 3.1% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The reserve for product returns decreased $0.7 million, from $60.7 million as of December 31, 2010 to $60.0 million as of December 31, 2011. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods was primarily related to additional estimated required reserves for newly launched products. If the amount of our estimated quarterly returns increased by 10.0 percent, our sales returns reserve at December 31, 2011, would increase by approximately $2.9 million and corresponding revenue would decrease by the same amount. Conversely, if the amount of our estimated quarterly returns decreased by 10.0 percent, our sales returns reserve at December 31, 2011, would decrease by approximately $2.9 million and corresponding revenue would increase by the same amount. We consider the sensitivity analysis of a 10.0 percent variance between estimated and actual sales returns to be representative of the range of other outcomes that we are reasonably likely to experience in estimating our sales returns reserves. For newly launched products, if the returns reserve percentage increased by one percentage point, our sales return reserve at December 31, 2011, would increase by approximately $10.9 million and corresponding revenue would decrease by the same amount. Conversely, if the returns reserve percentage decreased by one percentage point, our sales returns reserve at December 31, 2011, would have decreased by approximately $10.9 million and corresponding revenue would increase by the same amount. We consider the sensitivity analysis of a one percentage point variance between estimated and actual returns reserve percentage to be representative of the range of other outcomes that we are reasonably likely to experience in estimating our sales returns reserves for newly launched products. We also defer the recognition of revenue and related cost of revenue for certain sales of inventory into the distribution channel that are in excess of eight (8) weeks of projected demand. The distribution channels market demand requirement is estimated based on inventory information reported to us by our major wholesale customers for which we have inventory management agreements, who make up a significant majority of our total sales of inventory into the distribution channel. No adjustment is made for those customers who do not provide inventory information to us. Deferred product revenue associated with estimated excess inventory at wholesalers was approximately $0.2 million, $0.6 million and $1.3 million as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales Discounts We offer cash discounts to our customers as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximately 2% of the sales price. We account for cash discounts by establishing an allowance reducing accounts receivable by the full amount of the discounts expected to be taken by the customers. We consider payment performance and adjust the allowance to reflect actual experience and our current expectations about future activity. The provision for cash discounts was $23.4 million, or 2.0% of gross product sales, and $19.0 million, or 2.0% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The reserve for cash discounts increased $0.6 million, from $2.2 million as of December 31, 2009 to $2.8 million as of December 31, 2010. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods was due to an increase in gross product sales. The increase in the reserve for sales discounts during the year ended December 31, 2010 was due to the increase in the related eligible outstanding accounts receivable amounts as of December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009. The provision for cash discounts was $27.5 million, or 2.0% of gross product sales, and $23.4 million, or 2.0% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The reserve for cash 83 Table of Contents discounts increased $1.3 million, from $2.8 million as of December 31, 2010 to $4.1 million as of December 31, 2011. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods was due to an increase in gross product sales. The increase in the reserve for sales discounts during the year ended December 31, 2011 was due to the increase in the related eligible outstanding accounts receivable amounts as of December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010. Contract Chargebacks We have agreements for contract pricing with several entities, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price. These parties purchase products through wholesalers at the lower contract price, and the wholesalers charge the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower contract price back to us. We account for chargebacks by establishing an allowance reducing accounts receivable based on our estimate of chargeback claims attributable to a sale. We determine our estimate of chargebacks based on historical experience and changes to current contract prices. We also consider our claim processing lag time, and adjust the allowance periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience. Although we record an allowance for estimated chargebacks at the time we record the sale (typically when we ship the product), the actual chargeback related to that sale is not processed until the entities purchase the product from the wholesaler. We continually monitor our historical experience and current pricing trends to ensure the liability for future chargebacks is fairly stated. The provision for contract chargebacks was $5.2 million, or 0.4% of gross product sales, and $3.0 million, or 0.3% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The reserve for contract chargebacks increased $0.5 million, from $0.7 million as of December 31, 2009 to $1.2 million as of December 31, 2010. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods and the reserve during the year ended December 31, 2010 was due to an increase in eligible gross product sales and in the number of pricing contracts in place during the comparable periods. The provision for contract chargebacks was $7.0 million, or 0.5% of gross product sales, and $5.2 million, or 0.4% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The reserve for contract chargebacks increased $0.8 million, from $1.2 million as of December 31, 2010 to $2.0 million as of December 31, 2011. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods and the reserve during the year ended December 31, 2011 was due to an increase in eligible gross product sales and in the number of pricing contracts in place during the comparable periods. Managed Care and Medicaid Rebates Managed care and Medicaid rebates are contractual discounts offered to government programs and private health plans that are eligible for such discounts at the time prescriptions are dispensed, subject to various conditions. We record provisions for rebates based on factors such as timing and terms of plans under contract, time to process rebates, product pricing, sales volumes, amount of inventory in the distribution channel, and prescription trends. We continually monitor historical payment rates and actual claim data to ensure the liability is fairly stated. The provision for managed care and Medicaid rebates was $102.5 million, or 8.6% of gross product sales, and $98.7 million, or 10.5% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The reserve for managed care and Medicaid rebates increased $2.3 million, from $47.1 million as of December 31, 2009 to $49.4 million as of December 31, 2010. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods and in the reserve during the year ended December 31, 2010 was due to an increase in eligible gross product sales. The provision for managed care and Medicaid rebates was $125.4 million, or 8.9% of gross product sales, and $102.5 million, or 8.6% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The reserve for managed care and Medicaid rebates increased $23.4 million, from $49.4 million as of 84 Table of Contents December 31, 2010 to $72.8 million as of December 31, 2011. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods and in the reserve during the year ended December 31, 2010 was due to an increase in eligible gross product sales and new managed care contracts entered into during December 2011. It is expected that the new managed care contracts entered into during December 2011 will result in managed care rebates being a greater percentage of gross sales of our products, particularly SOLODYN&reg;, during 2012 as compared to 2011. Consumer Rebates and Loyalty Programs We offer consumer rebates on many of our products and we have consumer loyalty programs. We generally account for these programs by establishing an accrual based on our estimate of the rebate and loyalty incentives attributable to a sale. We generally base our estimates for the accrual of these items on historical experience and other relevant factors. We adjust our accruals periodically throughout each quarter based on actual experience and changes in other factors, if any, to ensure the balance is fairly stated. The provision for consumer rebates and loyalty programs was $308.4 million, or 26.0% of gross product sales, and $213.1 million, or 22.6% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The reserve for consumer rebates and loyalty programs increased $28.4 million, from $73.3 million as of December 31, 2009 to $101.7 million as of December 31, 2010. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods and in the reserve during the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the continued growth in consumer rebate programs related to our SOLODYN&reg;, ZIANA&reg; RESTYLANE&reg; and PERLANE&reg; products, as well as the DYSPORT&reg; Challenge program that was in place during most of 2010. The provision for consumer rebates and loyalty programs was $447.7 million, or 31.9% of gross product sales, and $308.4 million, or 26.0% of gross product sales, for the years ended December 2011 and 2010, respectively. The reserve for consumer rebates and loyalty programs increased $38.2 million, from $101.7 million as of December 31, 2010 to $139.9 million as of December 31, 2011. The increase in the provision during the comparable periods and in the reserve during the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the continued growth in consumer rebate programs related to our SOLODYN&reg;, ZIANA&reg; RESTYLANE&reg; and PERLANE&reg; products. If our 2011 estimates of rebate redemption rates or average rebate amounts for our consumer rebate programs changed by 10.0 percent, our reserve for consumer rebates would be impacted by approximately $7.2 million and corresponding revenue would be impacted by the same amount. We consider the sensitivity analysis of a 10.0 percent variance in our estimated rebate redemption rates and average rebate amounts to be representative of the range of other outcomes that we are reasonably likely to experience in estimating our reserve for consumer rebates. Use of Information from External Sources We use information from external sources to estimate our significant items deducted from gross revenues. Our estimates of inventory in the distribution channel are based on inventory information reported to us by our major wholesale customers for which we have inventory management agreements, historical shipment and return information from our accounting records and data on prescriptions filled, which we purchase from IMS Health, Inc., one of the leading providers of prescription based information. We regularly monitor internal data as well as external data from our wholesalers, in order to assess the reasonableness of the information obtained from external sources. We also utilize projected prescription demand for our products, as well as, our internal information regarding our products. We use the information from IMS Health, Inc. to project the prescription demand for our products. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations pertaining to reliance on third party information, as certain third party information is itself in the form of estimates. 85 Table of Contents Use of Estimates in Reserves We believe that our allowances and accruals for items that are deducted from gross revenues are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. It is possible, however, that other parties applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different allowance and accrual amounts for items that are deducted from gross revenues. Additionally, changes in actual experience or changes in other qualitative factors could cause our allowances and accruals to fluctuate, particularly with newly launched products. We review the rates and amounts in our allowance and accrual estimates on a quarterly basis. If future estimated rates and amounts are significantly greater than those reflected in our recorded reserves, the resulting adjustments to those reserves would decrease our reported net revenues; conversely, if actual returns, rebates and chargebacks are significantly less than those reflected in our recorded reserves, the resulting adjustments to those reserves would increase our reported net revenues. If we changed our assumptions and estimates, our related reserves would change, which would impact the net revenues we report. Share Based Compensation In accordance with ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, we are required to recognize the fair value of share based compensation awards as an expense. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options. Option pricing models, including the Black Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, and expected risk free rate of return. We use a blend of historical and implied volatility based on options freely traded in the open market as we believe this is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using purely historical volatility. Increasing the weighted average volatility by 2.5 percent (from 0.33 percent to 0.355 percent) would have increased the fair value of stock options granted in 2011 to $13.55 per share. Conversely, decreasing the weighted average volatility by 2.5 percent (from 0.33 percent to 0.305 percent) would have decreased the fair value of stock options granted in 2011 to $12.02 per share. The expected life of the awards is based on historical experience of awards with similar characteristics. Stock option awards granted during 2011 have a stated term of 7 years, and the weighted average expected life of the awards was determined to be 7 years. Decreasing the weighted average expected life by 0.5 years (from 7.0 years to 6.5 years) would have decreased the fair value of stock options granted in 2011 to $12.38 per share. The risk free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the terms of our awards. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of future dividend payouts. The fair value of our restricted stock grants is based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock appreciation rights (SARs) is adjusted at the end of each reporting period based on updated valuation variables at the end of each reporting period. The fair value of SARs is most affected by changes in the fair market value of our common stock at the end of each reporting period. We are required to develop an estimate of the number of share based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate may have a significant effect on share based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in the first quarter of 2012 was immaterial. We evaluate the assumptions used to value our awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, stock based compensation expense may differ significantly from what was recorded in the 86 Table of Contents past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned stock based compensation expense. Future stock based compensation expense and unearned stock based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. Our estimates of these important assumptions are based on historical data and judgment regarding market trends and factors. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments used in estimating these factors, we may be required to record additional stock based compensation expense or income tax expense, which could be material to our results of operations. Inventory Inventory costs associated with products that have not yet received regulatory approval are capitalized if we believe there is probable future commercial use and future economic benefit. If future commercial use and future economic benefit are not considered probable, then costs associated with pre launch inventory that has not yet received regulatory approval are expensed as research and development expense during the period the costs are incurred. We could be required to expense previously capitalized costs related to pre approval inventory if the probability of future commercial use and future economic benefit changes due to denial or delay of regulatory approval, a delay in commercialization, or other factors. Conversely, our gross margins could be favorably impacted if previously expensed pre approval inventory becomes available and is used for commercial sale. As of December 31, 2011, there were no costs capitalized into inventory for products that have not yet received regulatory approval. Long lived Assets We assess the impairment of long lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under performance of a product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets. Recoverability of assets that will continue to be used in our operations is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to our estimate of the related total future net cash flows. If an asset carrying value is not recoverable through the related cash flows, the asset is considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by the difference between the asset groupings carrying amount and its present value of anticipated net cash flows, based on the best information available, including market prices or discounted cash flow analysis. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter than we had originally estimated, and there are sufficient cash flows to support the carrying value of the assets, we accelerate the rate of amortization charges in order to fully amortize the assets over their new shorter useful lives. During 2011 and 2010, impairment charges of approximately $16.5 million and $2.3 million, respectively, were recognized related to our review of long lived assets. This process requires the use of estimates and assumptions, which are subject to a high degree of judgment. If these assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for, and or accelerate amortization of, long lived assets. During 2009, we did not recognize an impairment charge as a result of our review of long lived assets. If our 2011 estimates of future net revenues and gross profit margin for DYSPORT&reg; were both reduced by 10.0 percent, our intangible asset related to DYSPORT&reg; would be impaired by approximately $38.9 million. If only our 2011 estimates of future net revenues for DYSPORT&reg; were reduced by 10.0 percent, and our 2011 estimates of gross profit margin for DYSPORT&reg; were reduced by 9.0 percent or less, our intangible asset related to DYSPORT&reg; would not be impaired. Similarly, if only our 2011 estimates of gross profit margin for DYSPORT&reg; were reduced by 10.0 percent, and our 2011 estimates of future net revenues for DYSPORT&reg; were reduced by 9.0 percent or less, our intangible asset related to DYSPORT&reg; would not be impaired. We consider 87 Table of Contents the sensitivity analysis of a 10.0 percent variance in our future estimated net revenues and gross profit margin amounts to be representative of the range of other outcomes that we are reasonably likely to experience in assessing the potential impairment of long lived assets. Income Taxes Income taxes are determined using an annual effective tax rate, which generally differs from the U.S. Federal statutory rate, primarily because of state and local income taxes, enhanced charitable contribution deductions for inventory, tax credits available in the U.S., the treatment of certain share based payments that are not designed to normally result in tax deductions, various expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes, changes in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and differences in tax rates in certain non U.S. jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuations during the year as new information is obtained which may affect the assumptions we use to estimate our annual effective tax rate, including factors such as our mix of pre tax earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, reserves for tax audit issues and settlements, utilization of tax credits and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct operations. We recognize tax benefits only if the tax position is more likely than not of being sustained. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities, along with net operating losses and credit carryforwards. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets to reduce the net carrying values to amounts that management believes is more likely than not to be realized. Based on our historical pre tax earnings, we believe it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefit of substantially all of the existing net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011. We believe the existing net deductible temporary differences will reverse during periods in which we generate net taxable income; however, there can be no assurance that we will generate any earnings or any specific level of continuing earnings in future years. Certain tax planning or other strategies could be implemented, if necessary, to supplement income from operations to fully realize recorded tax benefits. On November 1, 2011, we closed our sale of all issued and outstanding shares of common stock of LipoSonix to Solta. The transaction resulted in a $30.5 million capital loss for income tax purposes, of which $26.2 million can be carried back and used to offset capital gains generated in prior tax years. Accordingly, an income tax benefit of $9.4 million was recognized and is included in the gain from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. A deferred tax asset was recorded on the portion of the capital loss ($4.3 million) that could not be carried back to prior years. As a capital loss can only be utilized to offset capital gains, we have recorded a valuation allowance of $1.5 million against the deferred tax asset in order to reduce the carrying value of the deferred tax asset to $0, which is the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. The sales price used to calculate the above capital loss consisted of $15.5 million of cash received at closing, $20.0 million of cash received on November 18, 2011 and $29.3 million of value from future additional contingent cash and milestone payments. A deferred tax asset was recorded on the $29.3 million as it was not recognized as additional selling price for financial reporting purposes. We have recorded a valuation allowance of $10.5 million against this deferred tax asset in order to reduce the carrying value of this deferred tax asset to $0, which is the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We have an option to acquire Revance or license Revances topical product that is under development. Through December 31, 2011, we have recorded $21.0 million of charges related to the reduction in the carrying value of the Revance investment. The reduction in the carrying value of the Revance investment is currently an unrealized loss for tax purposes. We will not be able to determine the character of the loss until we exercise or fail to exercise our option. A realized loss characterized as a capital loss can only be utilized to offset capital gains. We have recorded a $7.6 million valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset associated with this unrealized tax loss in order to reduce the carrying value of the deferred tax asset to $0, which is the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. 88 Table of Contents We have an option to acquire a privately held U.S. biotechnology company. Through December 31, 2011, we have an unrealized tax loss of $21.9 million related to this option. If we fail to exercise our option, a capital loss will be recognized. A loss characterized as a capital loss can only be used to offset capital gains. We have recorded a $7.9 million valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset associated with this unrealized tax loss in order to reduce the carrying value of the deferred tax asset to $0, which is the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Research and Development Costs and Accounting for Strategic Collaborations All research and development costs, including payments related to products under development and research consulting agreements, are expensed as incurred. We may continue to make non refundable payments to third parties for new technologies and research and development work that has been completed. These payments may be expensed at the time of payment depending on the nature of the payment made. Our policy on accounting for costs of strategic collaborations determines the timing of the recognition of certain development costs. In addition, this policy determines whether the cost is classified as development expense or capitalized as an asset. We are required to form judgments with respect to the commercial status of such products in determining whether development costs meet the criteria for immediate expense or capitalization. For example, when we acquire certain products for which there is already an ANDA or NDA approval related directly to the product, and there is net realizable value based on projected sales for these products, we capitalize the amount paid as an intangible asset. In addition, if we acquire product rights which are in the development phase and as to which we have no assurance that the third party will successfully complete its development milestones, we expense such payments. Legal Contingencies We record contingent liabilities resulting from asserted and unasserted claims against us when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss is estimable. We disclose material contingent liabilities when there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will exceed the recorded liability. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, in some cases including judgments about the potential actions of third party claimants and courts. Therefore, actual losses in any future period are inherently uncertain. In addition to the matters disclosed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings of Part I of this report, we are party to ordinary and routine litigation incidental to our business. We do not expect the outcome of any pending litigation to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011 04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (Topic 820) Fair Value Measurement, to provide a consistent definition of fair value and ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are similar between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU No. 2011 04 changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements, particularly for level 3 fair value measurements. ASU No. 2011 04 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and must be applied prospectively. We are currently assessing what impact, if any, the revised guidance will have on our results of operations and financial condition. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income. The updated guidance amends the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) to allow an entity the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of 89 Table of Contents net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both alternatives, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. ASU No. 2011 05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. The amendments to the Codification in the ASU do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. ASU No. 2011 05 will be applied retrospectively. ASU No. 2011 05 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively. It is expected that the adoption of this amendment will only impact the presentation of comprehensive income within our consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011 08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. The updated guidance permits an entity to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting units fair value is less than its carrying value before applying the two step goodwill impairment model that is currently in place. If it is determined through the qualitative assessment that a reporting units fair value is more likely than not greater than its carrying value, the remaining impairment steps would be unnecessary. The qualitative assessment is optional, allowing companies to go directly to the quantitative assessment. ASU 2011 08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed in annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing what impact, if any, the revised guidance will have on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk At December 31, 2011, $40.7 million of our cash equivalent investments were in money market securities that are reflected as cash equivalents, because all maturities are within 90 days. Included in money market securities are commercial paper, Federal agency discount notes and money market funds. Our interest rate risk with respect to these investments is limited due to the short term duration of these arrangements and the yields earned, which approximate current interest rates. Our policy for our short term and long term investments is to establish a high quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities that we hold on an available for sale basis, was approximately $285.8 million as of December 31, 2011, and $506.7 million as of December 31, 2010. These securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. As of December 31, 2011, our investments included auction rate floating securities with a fair value of $12.8 million. Our auction rate floating securities are debt instruments with a long term maturity and with an interest rate that is reset in short intervals through auctions. The negative conditions in the credit markets from 2008 through 2011 have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of auction rate floating securities. As a result, these affected auction rate floating securities are now considered illiquid, and we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the holder at maturity. We may not be able to liquidate the securities until a future auction on these investments is successful. 90 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our available for sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, as well are our Contingent Convertible Senior Notes, which have fixed interest rates. We have aggregated our available for sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollar amounts in thousands): Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2011 Financial instruments mature during year ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Available for sale and trading securities $ 98,374 $ 138,969 $ 31,895 $ 3,736 $ $ 12,793 Weighted average yield rate 0.7 % 0.7 % 1.3 % 1.0 % 0.0 % 3.1 % Contingent convertible senior notes due 2032 $ $ $ $ $ $ 169,145 Interest rate 2.5 % Contingent convertible senior notes due 2033 $ $ $ $ $ $ 181 Interest rate 1.5 % We have not entered into derivative financial instruments. We have minimal operations outside of the U.S. and, accordingly, we have not been susceptible to significant risk from changes in foreign currencies. During the normal course of business we could be subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discussed above, and collectability of accounts receivable. We continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. 
</SECTION>
