<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: ICOS CORP
CIK: 0000874294
SIC: 2834
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20051231
FILE DATE: 20060308
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Overview The following management discussion and analysis is intended to provide information which will enhance a readers understanding of our business, results of operations, financial condition and related matters. It is organized as follows: In the section entitled ICOS Corporation Background, we briefly describe our primary sources of revenue and cash, the importance of collaborations to our business, the business environment in which we operate, our approved product (Cialis) and our research and development programs. In Results of Operations, we discuss each of our most critical accounting policies as well as the primary factors that are likely to contribute to significant variability of our results of operations from period to period. We then provide detailed narrative regarding significant changes in our and Lilly ICOS results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004, and 2004 compared to 2003. Under the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources, we discuss our 2005 year end liquidity, our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to those for the year ended December 31, 2004, factors that may influence our future cash requirements and the status of certain contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005. In the section entitled 2006 Required Accounting Change, we discuss changes in our accounting for share based payment transactions, particularly stock options. These changes are required to be implemented during our 2006 first quarter. Finally, under Legal Proceedings, we discuss the status of certain litigation relating to Cialis. ICOS Corporation Background ICOS Corporation is a biotechnology company that is dedicated to bringing innovative therapeutic products to patients. Through Lilly ICOS, we are marketing Cialis (tadalafil) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Directly or through Lilly ICOS, we are also working to develop and commercialize treatments for serious unmet medical needs such as BPH, PAH, hypertension, cancer and inflammatory diseases. We recognize revenue for services we provide, under sales and marketing, research and development, contract manufacturing and co promotion agreements, and for amounts earned from licensing of our technology. The majority of our revenue relates to cost reimbursement for sales and marketing and research and development activities that we conduct on behalf of Lilly ICOS. Our sources of cash include, among other items, distributions to be received based on the profitability of Lilly ICOS and amounts earned from the aforementioned revenue sources. The discovery and development of a new drug product is a rigorous process, involving a significant degree of risk. Since the underlying biology of many diseases is not completely understood, it is very difficult to discover and develop a drug that can withstand the extensive preclinical and clinical testing necessary to demonstrate its safety and efficacy in humans. As a result, very few research and development projects result in a commercially approved product. Our long term business growth depends on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize important new therapeutic treatments, which may include potential new indications for tadalafil, the active ingredient in Cialis. 29 Table of Contents Over the years, we have established collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to enhance our internal development capabilities, to acquire rights to additional product candidates, to gain access to the capabilities of our collaboration partners and to offset a substantial portion of the financial risk of developing individual product candidates. Our most significant ongoing collaboration is Lilly ICOS. We expect to establish additional collaborations with pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies in the future. We operate in a highly regulated business environment. Cialis and our product candidates require extensive regulatory review, approval and oversight prior to commercialization. For example, the FDA regulates, among other things, the development, manufacture, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Our products marketed abroad are also subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory processes are lengthy, expensive and uncertain. They may take years to complete, may involve ongoing requirements for post marketing studies and can affect the nature, content, timing and cost of our marketing efforts. The markets in which we compete are well established and intensely competitive. Cialis and our product candidates, if approved and commercialized, compete or are likely to compete against existing therapeutic products or treatments. In addition, a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are currently developing products targeting the same diseases and medical conditions that we target. Key factors affecting our markets include: the timing and scope of regulatory approvals; safety and efficacy of therapeutic products; cost and availability of these products; availability of alternative treatments; and protection of patent and proprietary rights. Although, we believe that we are positioned to compete adequately with respect to these factors in the future, our future success is currently difficult to predict. Cialis has only been available in Europe since February 2003 and in North America since November 2003. Our product candidates are in various stages of research and development and, accordingly, subject to substantial research, development, regulatory approval and commercialization risks. Since timing of market entry can be an important factor in determining a new products eventual success and profitability, the speed with which we can develop products and receive regulatory approval will likely be important to our commercial success. Cialis (tadalafil) Our first commercial product, Cialis, is being prescribed around the world for patients with erectile dysfunction. Cialis is being manufactured and marketed by Lilly ICOS, which has rights to commercialize Cialis in North America and Europe. Lilly has exclusive rights to market Cialis in the remainder of the world, and pays royalties to Lilly ICOS, equal to 20% of the net sales in those territories. Sales of Cialis are recorded by Lilly ICOS or Lilly depending upon the territory in which the sales occur. Overall growth in market demand for erectile dysfunction drugs, and Lilly ICOS ability to capture and retain increased market share, will significantly affect revenues and expected profitability from Cialis and, in turn, our results of operations and cash flows. Cialis sales have experienced steady overall growth and we have continued to gain market share since the drugs launch in 2003. Worldwide sales of Cialis increased 35% in 2005, to $746.6 million, compared to $552.3 million in 2004. For the month of December 2005, Cialis U.S. market share was 25.0%, compared to 20.0% in the same month of the prior year. In Europe, Canada and Mexico, Cialis aggregate market share for December 2005 was 33.2%, an increase of 4.2 percentage points compared to December 2004. Lilly ICOS is currently evaluating tadalafil for potential use in indications other than erectile dysfunction. In 2005, Lilly ICOS completed a Phase 2 clinical study and reported positive results in the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms in men with BPH. Lilly ICOS plans to proceed with a Phase 2b BPH clinical study in 2006, which may serve as one of two pivotal studies, to evaluate multiple doses of tadalafil in patients with BPH. The results of the multi dose study will be useful in the design of a Phase 3 study, expected to begin in 2008. Lilly ICOS also initiated a Phase 3 clinical study, in August 2005, evaluating tadalafil for the treatment of PAH, and a Phase 2 clinical study, in September 2005, for the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension. 30 Table of Contents Discovery and Preclinical Research We are continuously evaluating possible new product candidates in our discovery and preclinical research programs. The following table summarizes those programs. Therapeutic Area Indication Status Inflammation Psoriasis, Asthma Preclinical Urology Overactive bladder Preclinical Oncology Non small cell lung cancer/others Preclinical, Research Fibrotic diseases Kidney disease Research In the status column of the above table: Preclinical indicates evaluation of lead or preferred compounds or antibodies for safety, pharmacology and proof of efficacy in non human animal models; and Research indicates the identification process for compounds or antibodies for which activity in target human biological assay systems has been demonstrated in laboratory tests, but which have not yet been tested in non human animal models of specific human diseases. Discontinued Product Candidates In March 2005, we announced that a Phase 2 study of IC485, a phosphodiesterase type 4 enzyme (PDE4) inhibitor we were evaluating for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, did not meet the primary endpoint of improved lung function. We have no plans for further development of IC485. In 2003, we completed patient follow up in a Phase 2 clinical study evaluating resiniferatoxin (RTX) for the treatment of interstitial cystitis and, in January 2004, determined that RTX was not effective in relieving patients symptoms. IC14, a monoclonal antibody, was evaluated as a treatment for sepsis resulting from community acquired pneumonia. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we concluded that the results of a Phase 2 clinical study did not meet our criteria to continue further investment. In 2003, we concluded our LFA 1 antagonist collaboration with Biogen IDEC, Inc. (Biogen), and reacquired sole development rights to the program. Through our medicinal chemistry efforts, we have identified follow on LFA 1 antagonists, with improved properties, which are now in advanced stages of preclinical testing. In January 2003, we announced that joint development of endothelin receptor antagonists, through ICOS Texas Biotechnology L.P. (ICOS TBC), would not continue. On April 22, 2003, Encysive Pharmaceuticals acquired all of our interests in ICOS TBC for $10.0 million. Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, accounting for our share of the operating results of our unconsolidated affiliates (presently only Lilly ICOS) and estimating expenses from contracted research and clinical study activities conducted by various third parties. 31 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Collaboration revenue We recognize revenue from our contracts for research, development, marketing and sales services as the related billable time and costs are incurred. Payments received, related to future performance, are deferred and recognized as revenue when the future performance occurs. Contract manufacturing Contract manufacturing revenue, including fees earned for process development and manufacturing services performed for third parties, is recognized when collectibility is reasonably assured and the manufacturing obligation is fulfilled or manufacturing services are performed, as appropriate, based on the terms of the agreement. Payments received in excess of amounts earned are recorded as deferred revenue. Co promotion services Co promotion services revenue represents fees earned for physician details (sales calls) and other activities related to our promotion of others products. We recognize this revenue, at contractual rates, as the specified services are provided. Licenses of technology Nonrefundable upfront technology license fees, for product candidates where we are providing continuing services related to product development, are deferred, and recognized as revenue as we provide the services required under the agreement. We recognize nonrefundable upfront technology fees as revenue based on the ratio of current development costs to total estimated current and future development costs through the date we expect to file a New Drug Application (NDA), or an equivalent, with the FDA. We believe this method appropriately matches revenue with the estimated costs of the development effort. We also believe that development costs are the best available surrogate for benefits obtained as data is collected and other research and development activities progress related to the licensed technology. We estimate the total projected development costs based on the specific terms of each agreement, our judgment and experience and, when appropriate, the expertise of our collaboration partners. The ability to estimate total development effort and costs can vary significantly for each product candidate due to the inherent complexities and uncertainties of drug development. In the past, we have been able to estimate total expected development costs, for certain product candidates, because they were in later stages of clinical development at the time such estimates were prepared or our partner had substantial previous experience in the relevant field of study. However, we may not be able to reasonably estimate total expected development costs for product candidates in the future, particularly if such product candidates are in earlier stages of clinical development. To the extent we cannot estimate the costs to complete development, but can estimate an expected NDA filing date, we will recognize license fee revenue ratably through the expected NDA filing date. If we are unable to reasonably estimate either total costs to complete development or an expected NDA filing date (performance period), we will defer revenue recognition until one of those estimates can be made or the project is discontinued. Milestones, in the form of additional license fees, typically represent nonrefundable payments to be received in conjunction with the achievement of a specific event identified in the contract, such as initiation or completion of specified clinical development activities. We believe that a milestone represents the culmination of a distinct earnings process when it is not associated with ongoing research, development or other performance on our part. We recognize such milestones as revenue when they become due and collectibility is reasonably assured. When a milestone does not represent the culmination of a distinct earnings process, we recognize revenue at the time such payments are due, provided collectibility is reasonably assured, based on the ratio of effort to date (in terms 32 Table of Contents of costs or time, as discussed above) to total estimated development effort. Any remaining balance is deferred and recognized as revenue over the estimated remaining product development period, in the same manner as our upfront technology license fees. The timing and amount of revenue that we recognize from licenses of technology, either from upfront fees or milestones where we are providing continuing services related to product development, is dependent upon our estimates of total product development effort as well as the timing of such effort over the estimated development period. As product candidates move through the development process, it is necessary to revise these estimates to consider changes to the product development cycle, such as changes in the clinical development plan, regulatory requirements, or various other factors, many of which may be outside of our control. The impact on revenue of changes in our estimates and the timing thereof, is recognized prospectively, over the remaining estimated product development period. Accounting for our Share of the Operating Results of our Unconsolidated Affiliates We recognize our share of the operating results of our unconsolidated affiliates, in proportion to our ownership interest in the affiliate, and report it as equity in income (losses) of affiliates. Losses relating to our affiliates are recognized only to the extent we have made, or are committed to make, capital contributions to the affiliate. Operating results of our affiliates include expenses related to research, development, marketing and sales services that we provide to them, and that we recognize as collaboration revenue. The amount of our collaboration revenue, and the associated costs, both depend on continued research and development activities, the extent and timing of marketing and sales activities, and our level of participation in those activities. A shift of research, development or co promotional activities among collaboration partners could have a significant impact on our overall operating results to the extent that our collaboration billing rates include indirect and overhead costs that may not vary based on our collaboration activities. Also, a shift of such activities could have a material impact on our costs and expenses and the consequent amount of our collaboration revenue. For example, a shift of development activities from ICOS to our collaboration partner would result in our reporting lower revenue and lower operating expenses, though not necessarily of equal amounts. Estimating Expenses from Contracted Research and Clinical Study Activities Some of our research and development, including certain clinical study activities, is conducted by third parties, including contract research organizations, which may also provide contractually defined administration and management services. We recognize expenses for these contracted activities based on a variety of factors, including actual and estimated labor hours, clinical site initiation activities, patient enrollment rates, estimates of external costs and other activity based factors. On a regular basis, our estimates of these costs are reconciled to actual invoices from the service providers, and adjustments are made accordingly. Management Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Modifications to these assumptions could result in estimates that are substantially different from those reflected in our financial statements. General Our results of operations may vary significantly from period to period. Operating results will depend on, among other factors: market demand and competition for our product, Cialis, and other products marketed by us or our affiliates; the timing, cost and success of new product launches (or launches of existing products for use in 33 Table of Contents new indications) by us or our affiliates; the timing and magnitude of other operating expenses, including expenses of Lilly ICOS; the level of funding by collaboration partners; and the nature, timing and progression of research, development, marketing, sales and contract manufacturing activities. We may experience significant fluctuations in collaboration revenue, revenue from licenses of technology and contract manufacturing revenue. Collaboration revenue will vary depending upon the timing and amount of marketing and sales activities, the extent and timing of research and development collaboration activities, and our level of participation in those activities. Revenue from licenses of technology will vary as a result of (i) the nature and extent of product collaboration and other licensing transactions, (ii) the timing of milestone payments, and (iii) changes in estimated development costs and or expected completion dates, which depend on the success of clinical studies and other research and development efforts. Contract manufacturing revenue may fluctuate depending upon our needs to manufacture our own internal product candidates, our ability to attract third parties to utilize any remaining manufacturing capacity and the particular terms and nature of the manufacturing agreements. Collaboration activities, including both research and development programs and activities associated with commercialized products, are subject to the joint oversight of the collaborating parties. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared With Year Ended December 31, 2004 Revenue Total revenue was $71.4 million in 2005, compared to $74.6 million in 2004. Collaboration revenue from related parties was $50.1 million in 2005, compared to $56.0 million in 2004. The decrease primarily reflects a reduction in Lilly ICOS reimbursement of the costs of our sales force promoting Cialis, partially offset by higher revenue for research and development activities conducted on behalf of Lilly ICOS. From September 2003 through December 2004, the costs of our sales force were fully reimbursed by Lilly ICOS. Beginning in January 2005, 60% of the costs of our sales force are being reimbursed by Lilly ICOS. Beginning in January 2006, our collaboration revenue from Lilly ICOS will also include full reimbursement for the cost of 40 third party sales representatives that we have engaged to promote Cialis in the United States. Contract manufacturing revenue was $16.0 million in 2005, compared to $16.4 million in 2004. Revenue associated with our contract manufacturing services may fluctuate significantly based on our internal manufacturing needs and our ability to sell excess capacity to third parties. Co promotion services revenue, whereby we received a fee per sales call to promote AndroGel&reg; on behalf of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc., totaled $5.3 million in 2005. The co promotion arrangement ended in December 2005. Revenue for 2004 included $2.2 million from licenses of technology to third parties who are independently developing products that use ICOS technology. Equity in Income (Losses) of Affiliates Our equity in income of Lilly ICOS was $19.5 million in 2005, compared to equity in losses of $130.4 million in 2004. See Lilly ICOS Results of Operations later herein. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $165.2 million in 2005, compared to $142.0 million in 2004. Research and development. Research and development expenses are principally comprised of costs for: personnel, including salaries and benefits; occupancy; clinical studies performed by third parties; materials and 34 Table of Contents supplies to support our programs; contract research; manufacturing; consulting arrangements; in licensing fees; and other expenses incurred to operate our research and development programs. Research and development expenses increased $16.5 million, to $88.3 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher expenses associated with our discovery and preclinical research programs and incremental development activities being performed by ICOS personnel on behalf of Lilly ICOS, partially offset by the impact of the discontinuation of IC485 development activities in the 2005 first quarter. Our research and development activities occur in two main areas: (i) discovery and preclinical research; and, (ii) clinical research and development, including the formulation and manufacture of drug substance for use in clinical studies and, when appropriate, seeking approval for commercial manufacturing and marketing. Our discovery and preclinical research focuses on the identification and initial testing of new product candidates. During this stage, we identify new drug targets and lead compounds, and then optimize their characteristics through repetitive cycles of chemical modification. Compounds that demonstrate the most attractive characteristics and that appear to offer the potential for therapeutic benefit are subsequently evaluated in laboratory preclinical studies to evaluate their safety, pharmacology and efficacy in animal models. Based on the results of preclinical studies, specific compounds may be selected to advance to clinical research and development. Clinical research and development refers to internal and external activities associated with clinical studies in humans and advancing clinical product candidates towards a goal of seeking regulatory marketing approval. Such activities include, among other things, services provided by clinical research organizations and principal investigators and concurrent activities associated with advancing a clinical product candidate, such as the manufacture and formulation of drug compounds for clinical studies and in preparation for commercial scale production. The clinical development process involves several rigorous stages, many of which are strictly prescribed and monitored by regulatory authorities, such as the FDA. Our clinical research and development expenses include the costs of activities that are not attributable to individual projects, but are necessary to support our overall clinical program. These indirect costs are primarily associated with general regulatory compliance, staff training, development and maintenance of clinical processes and information systems, management and administrative support. These indirect costs are not allocated to development projects. The following table provides information regarding our research and development expenses, by project: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Cialis (tadalafil) $ 19,332 $ 12,959 $ 6,657 Discontinued clinical projects: IC485 3,425 12,045 9,441 RTX 1,288 9,862 IC14 350 7,203 IC747 4,043 Other 2,938 Indirect clinical costs 7,528 7,157 8,232 Discovery and preclinical research 58,004 37,992 37,382 Total research and development expenses $ 88,289 $ 71,791 $ 85,758 Development of a new drug product is a lengthy and expensive process, involving a high degree of uncertainty. Very few research and development projects result in a commercial product. Before obtaining 35 Table of Contents regulatory approval for the sale of any of our potential products, we must subject them to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. At any time during the multi year clinical development period, factors such as ineffectiveness of the product candidate, discovery of unacceptable toxicities or side effects, development of disease resistance or other physiological factors, or delays in patient enrollment or other development activities could cause us to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of a product candidate. Because of the uncertainties of clinical research and development, at this time we are unable to provide estimates of project completion dates, the timing of our research and development efforts and costs of completing research and development projects. Various statutes and regulations govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing and other factors that are critical in the development and commercialization of a product candidate. The lengthy process of complying with the applicable statutes and regulations and seeking necessary regulatory approvals requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us to obtain, or any delay in obtaining regulatory approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial delay in completing clinical studies or obtaining regulatory approvals could severely harm our business. Such delays could: require that we spend substantial additional funds to continue our development efforts; delay, for a considerable period of time, our ability to seek or obtain regulatory approvals needed to market our potential products; and, provide existing or new competitive products with the opportunity to expand their share or enter the market before ours. These, and similar events, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bring a product to market, substantially increasing the cost of development and postponing, reducing or eliminating the potential to generate net cash inflows from the successful commercialization of a product. Marketing and selling. Marketing and selling expenses principally consist of costs associated with our pharmaceutical sales force, marketing activities for Cialis that we conduct on behalf of Lilly ICOS and market research activities for our product candidates in research and development. Marketing and selling expenses increased $3.2 million, to $42.6 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to increased sales force compensation costs and incremental costs associated with our co promotion arrangement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Cost of contract manufacturing. Contract manufacturing expenses are principally comprised of costs for: personnel, including salaries and benefits; occupancy; raw materials and consumables used in process development and manufacturing; testing services provided by third parties; facility overhead, including taxes, depreciation, utilities and maintenance of manufacturing equipment; and other shared services, including information systems and staff support. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of costs associated with corporate support functions, general management and other activities not related to research and development, marketing and sales or contract manufacturing. General and administrative expenses were $20.3 million in 2005 and $18.2 million in 2004. The increase primarily reflects higher legal expenses, costs associated with the issuance of restricted stock awards in the 2005 third quarter and other compensation increases. Interest Expense In both 2005 and 2004, we incurred $6.8 million of interest expense (including $1.2 million of amortization of deferred financing costs), on $278.7 million of 2% convertible subordinated notes, issued in June and July of 2003. Interest and Other Income Interest and other income totaled $6.2 million in 2005, compared to $6.4 million in 2004, reflecting lower average invested balances during 2005, partially offset by higher average interest rates earned. 36 Table of Contents Lilly ICOS Results of Operations Lilly ICOS reported net income of $37.8 million in 2005, compared to a net loss of $262.0 million in 2004. The $299.8 million improvement reflects increased worldwide sales of Cialis and reductions in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005. Worldwide sales of Cialis for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2005 2004 (In millions) Lilly ICOS territories: United States $ 272.9 $ 206.6 Europe 244.5 177.9 Canada and Mexico 59.3 37.2 Total Lilly ICOS 576.7 421.7 Lilly territories 169.9 130.6 Worldwide total $ 746.6 $ 552.3 Total Lilly ICOS revenue, in 2005, was $610.7 million, including $34.0 million in royalties on Cialis sales in the Lilly territories, compared to $447.9 million, including $26.1 million in royalties in 2004. Revenue for 2005 was negatively affected by the impact of approximately $27.0 million in aggregate reductions of U.S. wholesaler inventories of Cialis during the 2005 first quarter. Cialis has continued to capture a significant share of the PDE5 inhibitor market since its launch in 2003. For the month of December 2005, based on prescriptions filled, Cialis had a 25.0% market share in the United States.1 For the major Lilly ICOS territories outside of the United States, based on pharmacy purchases from wholesalers, Cialis market share for December 2005 ranged from 26% in the United Kingdom to 48% in France.2 Cost of sales totaled $47.3 million in 2005, including royalties payable by Lilly ICOS equal to 5% of its net product sales. Cost of sales was 8.2% of net product sales in 2005 and 8.6% of net product sales in 2004. Selling, general and administrative expenses include costs associated with conducting in person sales calls with physicians; marketing activities, including advertising, physician congresses and symposia, market research, public relations; and finance and legal costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $146.7 million from 2004, to $459.8 million in 2005. The decrease primarily reflects planned reductions in U.S. selling and marketing expenses. During 2004, we made significant launch related investments in sales and marketing programs to communicate the unique benefits of Cialis to consumers and prescribing physicians. Research and development expenses are principally comprised of costs for hourly based fees for services provided by Lilly and ICOS; clinical studies performed by third parties; materials and supplies to support clinical programs; and other expenses incurred to support Lilly ICOS overall research and development program. Research and development expenses were $65.8 million in 2005, compared to $67.3 million in 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared With Year Ended December 31, 2003 Revenue Total revenue was $74.6 million in 2004, compared to $75.1 million in 2003. 1 IMS National Prescription Audit Plus, December 2005. 2 IMS Health. IMS MIDAS, Copyright 2006. 37 Table of Contents Collaboration revenue from related parties was $56.0 million in 2004, compared to $25.9 million in 2003. The increase reflects higher revenue from Lilly ICOS, primarily reimbursement of costs associated with our sales force promoting Cialis in the United States for all of 2004. Beginning in September 2003, and continuing through December 2004, the costs of our sales force and the costs of marketing Cialis in the United States were fully reimbursed by Lilly ICOS. Contract manufacturing revenue was $16.4 million in 2004, compared to $12.2 million in 2003. The increases reflect greater use of our manufacturing capacity for external business during 2004, compared to the prior year. Revenue from licenses of technology was $2.2 million in 2004, compared to $37.0 million in 2003. The 2004 license fee revenue represents amounts due from third parties who are independently developing products that use technology licensed from ICOS. Included in the 2003 technology license fee revenue is $21.3 million of previously deferred upfront fees and forgiven loans, received from Biogen, which we recognized as revenue in conjunction with our reacquisition of sole development rights to the LFA 1 antagonist program in June 2003. Revenue from licenses of technology for 2003 also included $15.0 million earned upon the first commercial sale of Cialis in the United States. Equity in Income (Losses) of Affiliates Our equity in losses of affiliates was $130.4 million in 2004, compared to $87.2 million in 2003. See Lilly ICOS Results of Operations later herein. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $142.0 million in 2004, compared to $130.5 million in 2003. Research and development. Research and development expenses decreased $14.0 million, to $71.8 million in 2004. The decrease was primarily due to discontinuation of activities associated with the RTX, IC14 and IC747 programs. Those decreases were partially offset by increased costs related to activities associated with the development of IC485 and incremental Lilly ICOS research and development activities being performed by ICOS personnel in 2004. Marketing and selling. Marketing and selling expenses increased $19.6 million, to $39.4 million in 2004. The increase reflects costs associated with our U.S. sales force, which was hired and initially deployed in the third quarter of 2003. Cost of contract manufacturing. Contract manufacturing expenses increased $2.9 million, to $12.6 million in 2004. The increase primarily reflects greater use of capacity for external business during 2004, compared to 2003. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses were $18.2 million in 2004 and $15.3 million in 2003. The increase reflects cash executive performance incentive awards for 2004, compared to stock option executive incentive awards for previous years. The increase also reflects incremental professional fees, including legal, accounting and auditing, and recruiting. Interest Expense In 2004 and 2003, we incurred $6.8 million and $3.6 million of interest expense (including $1.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively, of amortization of deferred financing costs), on $278.7 million of 2% convertible subordinated notes, issued in June and July of 2003. 38 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income Interest and other income totaled $6.4 million in 2004, compared to $10.0 million in 2003. The decrease primarily reflects lower average investment balances during 2004, partially offset by higher average interest rates earned. Lilly ICOS Results of Operations Lilly ICOS reported a net loss of $262.0 million in 2004, compared to a net loss of $174.7 million in 2003. Worldwide sales of Cialis for 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2004 2003 (In millions) Lilly ICOS territories: United States $ 206.6 $ 27.9 Europe 177.9 95.1 Canada and Mexico 37.2 6.8 Total Lilly ICOS 421.7 129.8 Lilly territories 130.6 73.5 Worldwide total $ 552.3 $ 203.3 Total Lilly ICOS revenue, in 2004, was $447.9 million, including $26.1 million in royalties on Cialis sales reported by Lilly, compared to $144.5 million, including $14.7 million in royalties in 2003. Cost of sales totaled $36.1 million in 2004, including royalties payable by Lilly ICOS equal to 5% of its net product sales. Cost of sales was 8.6% of product sales in 2004, and 9.7% of product sales in 2003. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $363.4 million over the prior year, to $606.5 million in 2004. The increase primarily reflects higher 2004 selling and marketing costs due to the timing of launches of Cialis in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents, investment securities and associated interest receivable of $162.8 million, compared to $275.8 million at December 31, 2004. The decrease primarily reflects our 2005 net cash used in operations and funding of our investment in Lilly ICOS. We used $76.0 million in cash for operating activities during 2005, compared to $54.2 million during 2004. This change primarily reflects a higher 2005 operating loss, before equity in undistributed income (losses) of Lilly ICOS. During the 2005 fourth quarter, we received a $6.6 million distribution from Lilly ICOS based on its net income in the previous quarter. Future distributions are expected to occur based on Lilly ICOS ongoing profitability and cash requirements. We generated $66.5 million in cash from investing activities during 2005, compared to $27.2 million in 2004. Capital contributions to Lilly ICOS totaled $36.8 million in 2005, reflecting funding of Lilly ICOS operations through the 2005 second quarter, compared to $140.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2004. We decreased our investment portfolio in 2005 and 2004, resulting in net cash inflows of $108.2 million and $167.4 million, respectively. The net decrease in our investment portfolio reflects investment sales and maturities used to fund operations and capital contributions to Lilly ICOS. Cash inflows from investing activities in 2004 also included $6.0 million in proceeds from the sale of our partnership interests in ICOS TBC. 39 Table of Contents Net cash from the exercise of stock options, totaled $6.8 million and $7.0 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. We issued approximately 0.6 million shares of our common stock upon the exercise of stock options in both 2005 and 2004. Our existing cash and cash equivalents, investment securities, interest income from our investments, distributions of expected profits from Lilly ICOS, and cash flow from potential future collaborations, are believed to be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. However, in view of (i) the fact that Lilly ICOS only recently became profitable, (ii) our ongoing research and development efforts, and (iii) potential expansion of our operations through in licensing, collaborations or acquisitions, it is possible that we may need to seek additional financing. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may be unavailable on acceptable terms. If we are unable to raise additional funds when we need them, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for some of our marketing and selling activities or our research and development programs, or grant rights to third parties to develop and market product candidates that we would prefer to develop and market on our own. Our future cash requirements will depend on various factors which, to some extent, are beyond our control, including: continued successful commercialization of Cialis throughout the world; funding levels for research and development programs, including continued funding from our collaboration partners; the results, timing and extent of preclinical and clinical studies; the time and costs involved in filing and prosecuting patents and enforcing and defending patent claims; the regulatory process in the U.S. and other countries; acquisitions of products, technologies or businesses, if any; relationships with research and development collaborators; capital contributions to our affiliates; capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment; competing technological and market development activities; and the time and costs of manufacturing, scale up and commercialization activities. We have engaged in collaborations and joint development agreements with other parties where the capabilities and strategies of the other parties complement ours. Depending on the specific terms of our collaborative agreements, we may record revenue to the extent we are reimbursed for services we provide on behalf of a jointly owned entity. For example, we record collaboration revenue for research, development, marketing and sales services we provide to or on behalf of Lilly ICOS. Although collaborations, partnerships and joint ventures have provided revenue to us in the past, we cannot assure you that this type of revenue will be available to us in the future. We intend to expand our operations and portfolio of product candidates in clinical studies, as well as to continue discovery and preclinical research to identify additional product candidates. We also intend to continue to engage in pre marketing activities necessary to bring our product candidates to market and to expand 40 Table of Contents marketing and selling capabilities for our approved product. Due to the uncertainties of drug development and commercialization, as discussed elsewhere herein, we are unable to determine if, or when, any of our current product candidates will begin to generate net cash inflows. In the future, we may pursue new growth opportunities in a variety of ways including, but not limited to, internal discovery and development of new products, in licensing of products and technologies and or merger or acquisition of companies with desirable products and or technologies. Expansion of our operations will increase our future operating expenses. Furthermore, we may need to make incremental expenditures for additional laboratory, production and office facilities to accommodate the activities and personnel associated with these increased development and commercialization efforts. Any of these activities may require substantial capital investment. Our operating cash flows include the effect of certain noncancelable, contractual obligations. A summary of our contractual obligations, as of December 31, 2005, is as follows: Payments Due By Period (In thousands) Less than1 year 1 to 3years 4 to 5years More than5 years Total Convertible subordinated debt and related interest payments $ 5,573 $ 11,146 $ 287,010 $ $ 303,729 Operating leases 6,982 10,855 1,715 463 20,015 $ 12,555 $ 22,001 $ 288,725 $ 463 $ 323,744 Convertible subordinated debt and related interest payments: In 2003, we issued $278.7 million of convertible subordinated notes, which accrue interest at 2% per annum, payable semiannually on January and July 1. The notes mature on July 1, 2023 and are unsecured, subordinated to any senior indebtedness, and convertible, at the option of the holder, into our common stock at a conversion price of $61.50 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Note holders may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes on July 1, 2010, 2013 or 2018, at a price equal to the principal amount of the notes being repurchased. We may redeem all or a portion of the notes, at par, for cash at any time on or after July 5, 2010. Operating leases: We lease certain property and equipment under operating leases which, in the aggregate, obligate us through 2012. Many of our leases contain renewal options and provide for escalations of rent and payment of real estate taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses of the properties. In addition to the contractual obligations noted above, we have entered into various licensing and research and development arrangements under which we may be obligated to make future payments to third parties upon the achievement of certain success based objectives. We also have entered into contracts with various third parties, under which we may be required to pay immaterial amounts in the event of contract termination. In connection with our acquisition of technology rights to certain PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, we committed to pay a third party a royalty equal to 5% of the net sales of products developed utilizing the acquired technology. Lilly ICOS and Lilly have accepted primary responsibility for the royalty obligations resulting from this arrangement. Commitments Based on the terms of our marketing and sales agreement with Lilly ICOS and Lilly, beginning in 2007, we may be required to assume a portion of the sales and marketing responsibilities for Cialis in Canada, Mexico and Europe. As an alternative to deploying our own sales force, we may fulfill our sales and marketing responsibilities in those territories by contracting with Lilly or third parties. In the event we deploy our own sales force, we will be reimbursed in a manner similar to how we are reimbursed in the United States. 41 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements that require us to indemnify counterparties against third party claims. These may include: agreements with vendors and suppliers, under which we may indemnify them against claims arising from our use of their products or services; agreements with customers, under which we may indemnify them against claims arising from their use of our products or services; real estate and equipment leases, under which we may indemnify lessors against third party claims relating to use of their property; agreements with licensees or licensors, under which we may indemnify the licensee or licensor against claims arising from their use of our intellectual property or our use of their intellectual property; and agreements with initial purchasers and underwriters of our securities, under which we may indemnify them against claims relating to their participation in the transactions. The nature and terms of these indemnifications vary from contract to contract, and generally a maximum obligation is not stated. Because we are unable to estimate our potential obligation, and because management does not expect these indemnifications to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no related liabilities are recorded at December 31, 2005. We hold insurance policies that mitigate potential losses arising from certain indemnifications and, historically, we have not incurred significant costs related to performance under these obligations. 2006 Required Accounting Change Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for our stock based compensation according to the provisions of APB No. 25 and related interpretations and did not recognize compensation expense for options granted to employees and non employee directors with exercise prices equal to or in excess of the fair value of the underlying shares at the date of grant. Effective January 1, 2006, FAS 123R requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity instruments, such as stock options or restricted stock, based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The associated cost must be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (usually the vesting period). FAS 123R also requires us to estimate forfeitures in calculating stock based compensation expense, rather than recognizing the impact of the forfeitures as they occur, which was previously permitted. We will implement FAS 123R, on a prospective basis, beginning in the 2006 first quarter. Prior year amounts will not be restated, and we will not record a cumulative effect adjustment upon adoption of FAS 123R. Legal Proceedings In October 2002, Pfizer Inc., Pfizer Limited, and Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals filed a patent infringement lawsuit against ICOS, Lilly ICOS and Lilly in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Pfizer contends that the use, offering for sale, selling, manufacture or importing of Cialis, into the United States, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction by any of the defendants infringes claim 24 of Pfizers U.S. Patent No. 6,469,012 (or the Pfizer Patent), and seeks a declaratory judgment to that effect. Pfizer also seeks a permanent injunction, attorneys fees, costs and expenses. In January 2003, we and the other defendants filed an answer denying the central allegations of plaintiffs complaint and setting forth various affirmative defenses. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) subsequently ordered the reexamination of the Pfizer Patent. Under the reexamination process, the PTO is required to reconsider the validity of the patent if substantial new questions of patentability are raised by any party including the PTO itself. The District Court stayed, or suspended, the patent infringement lawsuit, pending the outcome of the reexamination. Subsequently, Lilly ICOS and other parties filed several reexamination requests regarding the Pfizer Patent, which were merged with the PTOs ordered reexamination. The first office action issued by the PTO rejected claim 24 of the Pfizer Patent. 42 Table of Contents The Examiner rejected claim 24 on the basis that certain prior art rendered the claimed invention not new and therefore unpatentable under 35 U.S.C. 102(b), and obvious under the judicially created doctrine of obviousness type double patenting. The Examiner did not accept any of the other arguments made in the then pending petitions for reexamination. We later filed a new request for reexamination of claim 24, which was granted by the PTO. Lilly also filed a separate new request for reexamination of claim 24; however, this request was denied. On September 15, 2005, the PTO issued a second office action that rejected Pfizers arguments made in response to the first office action, reaffirmed the initial rejection of claim 24, and entered new grounds for rejecting claim 24. The September 15, 2005 office action also maintained the obviousness type double patenting rejection of the other claims. On November 15, 2005, Pfizer filed its response to the September 15, 2005 office action. According to PTO procedure, the PTO should issue a further action, which may finalize the rejections of claim 24, withdraw the rejections of that claim, or allow an amended claim to be entered. Pfizer can challenge the result of a final office action within the PTO and subsequently in court. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and the eventual outcome in a particular case is impossible to determine in advance. We believe that Pfizers suit lacks merit and intend to vigorously pursue our various defenses. If Pfizer were to prevail in its suit against us, however, we might be subject to substantial damages, prohibited from marketing Cialis for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in the United States, or required by Pfizer to enter into a licensing agreement to market Cialis in the United States. Any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. On July 20, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against ICOS by Vanderbilt University in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Vanderbilt filed the lawsuit asserting that three of its researchers contributed to the conception of the inventions reflected in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,859,006 and 6,140,329. U.S. Patent No. 5,859,006 is ICOS patent claiming tadalafil and certain related compounds; U.S. Patent No. 6,140,329 is ICOS patent claiming the use of tadalafil and certain related compounds to treat erectile dysfunction. Tadalafil is the active ingredient in Cialis, which is marketed in North America by Lilly ICOS, which has an exclusive license to U.S. Patent Nos. 5,859,006 and 6,140,329. The Vanderbilt lawsuit requests that the Court direct the U.S. Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks to add the three individual researchers as co inventors on these patents. ICOS timely filed a response to the complaint on September 9, 2005, denying the central allegations of Vanderbilts complaint and setting forth various affirmative defenses. While the Company is diligently evaluating Vanderbilts claims and seeking additional information, it currently believes that Vanderbilts claims lack merit and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously. Because the suit is in its early stages, it is premature to assess what, if any, impact the lawsuit might have on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk At December 31, 2005, our financial instruments include cash, cash equivalents, marketable investment securities, receivables, accounts payable and convertible subordinated debt. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our marketable investment securities and convertible subordinated debt. Because of the relatively short effective maturities of our investments, we do not expect interest rate fluctuations to materially affect the aggregate value of our financial assets. The fair value of our convertible subordinated debt is expected to change inversely to changes in interest rates. The fair value of our convertible subordinated debt also is expected to change as our stock price and the expected volatility of our stock price change. The fair value of our convertible subordinated debt was $225.8 million at December 31, 2005, with a carrying amount of $278.7 million at that date. 43 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
