<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: TUT SYSTEMS INC
CIK: 0000878436
SIC: 3661
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20051231
FILE DATE: 20060223
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Our Business We design, develop, and sell digital video processing systems that enable telephony based service providers to deliver broadcast quality digital video signals across their networks. We refer to these systems as digital TV headends or video content processing systems. We also offer digital video processing systems that enable private enterprise and government entities to transport video signals across satellite, fiber, radio, or copper facilities for surveillance, distance learning, and TV production applications. We also offer broadband transport and service management products that enable the provisioning of high speed Internet access and other broadband data services over existing copper networks within hotels and private campus facilities. Our History Historically, we derived most of our sales from our broadband transport and service management products. In November 2002, we acquired VideoTele.com, referred to in this report as VTC, from Tektronix, Inc. to extend our product offerings to include digital video processing systems. On June 1, 2005, we acquired Copper Mountain Networks, Inc., referred to in this report as Copper Mountain, for its technology and engineering resources which we have refocused to further address our expanding video market opportunities for delivering advanced video services over coax and fiber networks. We earn revenue primarily by selling video content processing systems both directly and through resellers to telecommunications service providers. We also earn revenue by selling video transmission systems to TV broadcasters and governments, and by selling broadband transport and service management products directly and through distributors to the hospitality industry and to owners of private multi tenant campus facilities. During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, international sales represented 18.4%, 23.3% and 22.6% of our total sales, respectively. Material Trends and Uncertainties We pay close attention to and monitor various trends and uncertainties about our business. There is a growing demand by independent operating telephone companies to offer video services to their customer base. According to a recent release from Infonetics Research in November 2005, the number of IPTV subscribers worldwide is expected to grow to over 53.7 million by the end of 2009. While this growing market presents opportunities to serve a larger customer base, we are also encountering increasing competition as more companies compete to sell digital TV headend products. We expect this market space will continue to become more competitive in the future. Our immediate competitors in the digital TV headend markets have been primarily small private companies that were focused on a narrower product line than ours and thereby may have been able to devote substantially more targeted resources to developing, marketing and selling new products than we are able to. Certain of these companies have become targets for acquisition by larger companies, in which case we may face competitors with substantially greater name recognition, and technical, financial and marketing resources than we have. This increased competitive pressure may adversely affect the amount and timing of our revenue in future periods, thereby making it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our future revenue, and may also adversely affect our product margins. The emergence of new technologies to serve the digital TV headend market means that we must continue to invest in these technologies to remain competitive. Digital subscriber line, or DSL, technologies use sophisticated signal blending techniques to transmit data through copper wires. The limitations on the amount of 27 Table of Contents data that can be transmitted in a fixed amount of time (such limitations are referred to as bandwidth) and the distance data may be transmitted using copper wire constrain both the number of video channels that may be delivered simultaneously and the number of customers that are reachable from a telco central office over a DSL network. Advancements in video compression technology are now enabling high quality video streams to be transported at lower data transfer rates than has been previously available. These compression advancements also allow for the delivery of high definition television over bandwidth constrained asymmetric DSL, or ADSL, lines for the first time. ADSL is a technology that allows more data to be transmitted over existing copper telephone lines compared with standard DSL. Additionally, DSL advancements are emerging that expand the available bandwidth from the telco to the subscriber thereby supporting higher DSL data transfer rates over longer distances. As our products continue to incorporate new technological advancements, we expect the demand for our products will increase because our products will enable more telcos to reach more of their customers with a greater number of video channels and features over their DSL networks. However, because of the increasing competition in the markets in which we compete, regardless of our revenue and product margins in future periods, we will continue to devote significant resources to research and development in future periods in order to enable us to offer our customers competitive products that incorporate these emerging technologies. As a consequence, we expect our research and development expenses in 2006 to be comparable to the research and development expenditures we incurred in 2005. As we continue to capitalize on the growing number of telcos deploying video services in the United States and abroad, we will continue to aggressively market our new and existing products and expand our marketing and sales efforts domestically and internationally. Nevertheless, our sales activities have been and will continue to be subject to competitive market pressure. We believe that in certain competitive markets, our prospective customer purchase decisions continue to be impacted by lengthening of the purchase decision because of several factors that are affecting the overall digital TV headend market. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the delays in the introduction of advanced compression technology set top boxes, the transition to more efficient data transmission technologies and the emergence of video signal encryption requirements. Nevertheless, given the opportunities offered by the growing number of our target customers deploying or enhancing video services and despite the length of the sales cycle, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in 2006 compared to our spending in 2005. Internal Controls and Disclosure Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Fiscal Year 2005 Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as of December 31, 2005. Based on this evaluation, they concluded as of December 31, 2005 that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting which occurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and which have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. Definitions for Discussion of Results of Operations Our discussion of our results of operations focuses on the following items from our income statement: Total revenues consists of product sales, and license and royalty fees. Revenue consists of sales of our video processing systems, which includes both digital TV headend and video transmission systems. Revenue also consists of revenue from our broadband transport and service management products. Since our acquisition of VTC, a large part of our revenue has been associated with the sale of digital TV headends. Furthermore, each individual headend sale has represented a significant portion of our revenue. If we were to sell even one less system than our forecasted number of headend sales, our revenue would be materially impacted. As we did not enter into any new license or royalty agreements during 2003, 2004 or 2005, we expect minimal future license and royalty revenue. Cost of goods sold, or COGS, consists of costs related to raw materials, contract manufacturing, personnel, overhead, test and quality assurance for products, and the cost of licensed technology included in our 28 Table of Contents products. Raw materials, contract manufacturing and licensed technology are the principal elements of COGS and vary directly with product sales. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of selling and marketing personnel costs, including sales commissions, facilities, travel, trade shows, promotions and outside services. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel and facilities costs, contract consultants, outside testing services, and equipment and supplies associated with enhancing existing products and developing new products. General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs for administrative officers and support personnel, facilities, professional services and insurance expenses. Amortization of intangible assets consists primarily of expenses associated with the amortization of technology and patents related to acquisitions. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. Our acquisition of Copper Mountain has had a significant impact on every aspect of our financial statements since June 2005. This impact is reflected in the following discussion of our operating results. This should be considered when evaluating our period to period comparisons of 2005 relative to years prior to 2005. The following table sets forth items from our statements of operations as a percentage of total revenues for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 54.2 74.6 70.1 Gross profit 45.8 25.4 29.9 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 23.2 32.4 28.4 Research and development 24.6 29.1 33.1 General and administrative 13.9 17.3 14.0 Restructuring costs 0.9 0.3 Impairment of assets 0.5 Amortization of intangible assets 0.5 0.3 0.2 Total operating expenses 63.1 79.1 76.6 Loss from operations (17.2 ) (53.7 ) (46.8 ) Gain on sale of investments 0.5 Interest and other income (expense), net 0.1 (0.6 ) (0.3 ) Net loss (17.1 )% (53.9 )% (47.1 )% Total Revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our total revenue increased by 49.9% to $37.5 million from $25.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. We operate in a single business segment across two related markets. We measure our revenue by our two product lines only and therefore are unable to further quantify the impact of individual products on our revenue. During this same period, our revenue from video processing systems increased by 69.9% to $30.6 million from $18.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. During 2005, we experienced an increased demand for our video processing systems from independent operating telephone companies and international post, telephone and telegraph companies compared to 2004. We believe the increase in video processing systems revenue was due primarily to the increased market acceptance and the resulting increased demand for our products that address the IPTV market. In 2004, certain prospective customers indicated to us that they were delaying their purchase decisions for a variety of factors, including their anticipation of the introduction and general availability of advanced compression technologies. In 2005, we introduced our upgraded Astria video processing systems that 29 Table of Contents incorporates these anticipated technologies, known as Motion Pictures Experts Group (MPEG) advanced video compression technologies or MPEG 4 AVC. As a result, our upgraded Astria products enable our customers to address a larger percentage of their geographic market and deliver advanced video services. We expect our revenue from video processing systems to increase in 2006 when compared to 2005 as we continue to introduce additional features to our Astria products, including high definition products to new customers and as an upgrade option to our installed base. Revenue from the sale of our broadband transport and service management products decreased by 33.7% to $4.6 million in 2005 from $7.0 million in 2004. The decrease in broadband transport and service management revenue was primarily the result of customers choosing competing products that transmit data via wireless data transmission technologies instead of our products (which transmit data over telephone wires). The year over year decrease in our broadband transport and service management revenue is primarily due to the end of the product lifecycle for these products. Revenue from this product line is expected to increase in future quarters with the introduction of our next generation products expected late in the first quarter of 2006. Legacy product sales from the June 2005 acquisition of Copper Mountain Networks were $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We do not anticipate additional significant revenue from these products. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our revenue decreased by 22.3% to $25.0 million from $32.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. During this same period, our revenue from video processing systems decreased by 24.7% to $18.0 million from $23.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. As discussed earlier, we experienced a slowing demand for our video processing systems from independent operating telephone companies during 2004 compared to 2003. We believe the decrease in video processing systems revenue was primarily due to the adverse effect of several digital TV headend sales not closing during the period as expected primarily as a result of prospective customers delaying their purchase decisions in anticipation of the introduction and general availability of advanced compression technologies. Revenue from the sale of our broadband transport and service management products decreased by 15.7% to $7.0 million in 2004 from $8.3 million in 2003. Cost of Goods Sold. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our cost of goods sold increased by 41.0%, or $7.6 million, to $26.3 million from $18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Included in cost of goods are the effects of changes in our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories. These reserves were primarily related to lower of cost or market adjustments for raw materials and reserves for finished goods in excess of what we reasonably expected to sell in the foreseeable future. During both 2005 and 2004, cost of goods sold included a charge for increases in our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories of $1.0 million. These charges were primarily associated with our video processing systems products. The increase in cost of goods sold of $7.6 million from 2004 to 2005 included increases in materials costs of $6.7 million, outside contractor expenses of $0.3 million and amortization of $0.1 million. Also included in cost of goods sold during 2005 was a one time charge of $0.5 million to amortize the backlog acquired in the Copper Mountain acquisition. Our gross profit increased in 2005 compared to 2004 due to increased sales volume from our video processing systems. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our cost of goods sold increased by 6.9%, or $1.2 million, to $18.7 million from $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Included in cost of goods are the effects of changes in our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories. These reserves were primarily related to lower of cost or market adjustments for raw materials and reserves for finished goods in excess of what we reasonably expected to sell in the foreseeable future. During 2004, cost of goods sold included a charge for an increase in our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories of $1.0 million. This charge was primarily associated with our video processing systems products. In 2003, cost of goods sold was reduced as a result of a decrease in our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories of $1.5 million. The decrease in our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories in 2003 was because we were able to sell certain products for which we had originally set aside reserves in prior years. In addition to this $2.5 million increase included in costs of goods from the change in reserves for excess and obsolete inventories from 2003 to 2004, other significant increases in cost of goods sold 30 Table of Contents included increases in labor expenses of $0.5 million, outside contractor expenses of $0.2 million, freight costs of $0.2 million and amortization expenses of $0.2 million. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in materials cost of $2.4 million. Our gross profit declined in 2004 compared to 2003 due to decreased sales volume for both our video processing systems and our broadband transport and service management products. The cost increases previously mentioned, including the increase in our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, also negatively affected our gross profit in 2004 when compared to 2003. Sales and Marketing. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our sales and marketing expenses increased by 31.5% to $10.6 million from $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase of $2.6 million in sales and marketing expense was due to a year over year increase in personnel related costs of $1.7 million due to additional headcount added during the year and additional headcount from our acquisition of Copper Mountain, $0.2 million for travel costs, $0.1 million for promotional and advertising costs, $0.4 million for purchases of supplies and $0.2 million for depreciation of equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our sales and marketing expenses increased by 8.2% to $8.1 million from $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase of $0.6 million in sales and marketing expense was due to a year over year increase in personnel related costs of $0.2 million due to additional headcount added during the year, $0.1 million for promotional and advertising costs, $0.2 million for facilities and infrastructure expenses and $0.1 million in outside services expenses. Research and Development. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our research and development expense increased by 70.5% to $12.4 million from $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The $5.1 million increase in our research and development expense was due to a year over year increase in personnel related costs of $2.8 million from additional headcount added from our acquisition of Copper Mountain, $0.6 million from outside services, $0.2 million for facility costs, $1.3 million for the purchase of supplies relating to the development of our new product offerings and $0.2 million for travel costs. Our capital expenditures for research and development were $1.1 million in 2003, $0.1 million in 2004 and $0.6 million for 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our research and development expense decreased by 8.0% to $7.3 million from $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The $0.6 million decrease in our research and development expense was due to a year over year decrease in personnel related costs. General and Administrative. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our general and administrative expense increased by 21.1% to $5.3 million from $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The $0.9 million increase in our general and administrative expense was primarily due to a $1.2 million one time write off of costs relating to CoSines termination of the proposed merger offset by a decrease in outside services of $0.2 million and franchise taxes of $0.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our general and administrative expense decreased by 3.1% to $4.3 million from $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The $0.2 million decrease in our general and administrative expense was primarily due to a decrease in personnel related costs of $0.2 million, lower insurance costs of $0.3 million and contractors cost of $0.2 million offset by higher relocation costs of $0.1 million and outside service costs of $0.4 million. Restructuring Costs. In September 2005, we announced a restructuring program that included a workforce reduction. As a result of this restructuring program, we recorded restructuring costs of $0.1 million consisting of severance payments. As of December 31, 2005, we have paid all of the costs relating to the restructuring. We did not incur any restructuring costs for the year ended December 31, 2004. We incurred restructuring costs of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. In August 2003, we implemented a restructuring program that included a workforce reduction and relocation. This restructuring program resulted in restructuring costs of $0.3 million in the third quarter of 2003. 31 Table of Contents The restructuring costs consisted of $0.2 million in workforce reduction charges related primarily to severance and fringe benefits and $0.1 million in relocation expenses. As a result of this 2003 restructuring, we reduced our workforce by approximately 11.0%. Impairment of Assets. During the third quarter of 2005, we determined that certain of the technology acquired as part of the VTC acquisition had become impaired. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.2 million to write off the book value of the intangible assets associated with this technology. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we determined that certain assets in our UK office had become impaired. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.2 million to write off the book value of the assets. During the first quarter of 2004, we determined that certain of the technology acquired as part of the purchase of the ViaGate Technology assets had become impaired. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.2 million to write off the book value of the intangible assets associated with this technology. During the second quarter of 2003, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million to write off the book value of certain technology acquired as part of the acquisition of the assets of ViaGate. The impairment costs have been included in cost of goods sold. Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets is comprised of intangibles related to the acquisitions of FreeGate, OneWorld assets and Xstreamis in 2000, ActiveTelco in 2001, VTC in 2002 and Copper Mountain in 2005. The remaining intangible assets subject to amortization from these acquisitions consist primarily of completed technology and patents. Amortization expense was $1.6 million, $1.5 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Amortization expense included in cost of goods sold was $1.6 million, $1.5 million and $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $0.1 million increase in 2005 when compared with 2004 was the result of intangible assets acquired as part of the Copper Mountain acquisition. The $0.3 million decrease in 2004 when compared with 2003 was the result of an intangible asset becoming fully amortized in 2004. Gain on sale of Investments. The gain on sale of investments for the year ended December 31, 2004, resulted from the sale of certain equity investments that had been written down to zero in a previous year. Interest and Other Income, Net. Interest and other income, net consists primarily of interest income and expense. Interest and other income, net remained consistent at $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our interest and other income, net decreased to an expense of $0.2 million from an income of $30,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease was due to interest expense associated with the $3.8 million note issued in connection with our purchase of VTC in November 2002. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents totaled $12.1 million at December 31, 2005, compared with cash and cash equivalents of $12.4 million at December 31, 2004, reflecting a net reduction in cash and cash equivalents of $0.3 million. Cash used in operating activities was $20.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared with $9.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in cash used in operating activities was primarily due to a higher net loss in 2005 compared with 2004, and a higher accounts receivable and inventory balance which was partially offset by higher accounts payable balances in 2005 compared with the same period in 2004. Cash used in investing activities included additions to property and equipment for the year ended December 31, 2005 of $1.7 million compared with $1.4 million in 2004, and net cash acquired as part of the Copper Mountain acquisition of $1.5 million offset by net purchases of short term investments of $1.7 million. In 2006, we expect capital expenditures to increase compared with 2005. We expect these capital expenditures to be funded from operations and borrowings from our existing credit facility. 32 Table of Contents Cash provided by financing activities in 2005 consisted of $14.1 million from the issuance of private equity financing, $0.5 million from the issuance of common stock related to the exercise of stock options and purchases made pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan and net proceeds from the line of credit of $7.1 million. The net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $2.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, resulted primarily from our use of $9.7 million for operating activities and the purchase of property and equipment of $1.4 million. The net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from these uses was offset by $8.7 million from the issuance of 4.6 million additional common shares in a secondary offering and $0.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock related to the exercise of stock options and purchases made pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2005, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005: Payments due by period Contractual Obligations (thousands) Total Less than 1year 1 3 years 3 5years Thereafter Line of credit $ 7,080 $ 7,080 $ $ $ Long Term debt obligations 4,122 4,122 Interest on long term debt obligations 504 252 252 Capital lease commitments 150 50 100 Operating lease commitments 1,792 960 816 16 Purchase obligations 450 450 Total $ 14,098 $ 8,792 $ 5,290 $ 16 $ On September 23, 2004, we entered into a revolving asset based credit facility (credit facility), with Silicon Valley Bank (the Bank) which was amended on December 29, 2005. As amended, this facility had an initial term of two years and expires on September 23, 2007. Borrowings under the credit facility are formula based and limited to the lesser of $10.0 million or an amount based on a percentage of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventories. The interest rate on outstanding borrowings is equal to the banks prime rate, 7.25% as of December 31, 2005, plus 0.5%. The rate may increase by 1.0% if we do not meet certain financial covenants. All of our assets are pledged as collateral, and the credit facility contains various covenants. We were in compliance with these financial covenants as of December 31, 2005. Based on the maximum percentages of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory levels, available borrowings under this facility were $7.8 million as of December 31, 2005. In addition, this credit facility allows for long term borrowings of up to $1.2 million for purchase of fixed assets. We had outstanding borrowings of $7.1 against the revolving credit facility and no long term borrowings against the credit facility at December 31, 2005. As part of our acquisition of VTC from Tektronix in November 2002, we issued a note payable to Tektronix for $3.2 million, with repayment in sixty months, or by November 2007. The interest rate on this note is 8% and is compounded annually. Through January 31, 2006, the accrued interest is added to the principal balance of the note. Thereafter, we will pay accrued interest on this note commencing on January 31, 2006 and on each 33 Table of Contents April 30, July 31 and October 31 thereafter until the principal balance is paid in full. Principal and accrued interest on the note payable is $4.1 million at December 31, 2005. In July 2005, we completed the sale of 5,535 shares of our common stock at a price of $2.70 per share for gross proceeds of $14.9 million. Net proceeds from the offering were approximately $14.1 million. Under the terms of the sale, we also issued warrants to purchase an additional 2.8 million shares of our common stock. The warrants expire in 2010 and, beginning in 2006, are exercisable at a per share price of $4.25. We also have the right to call the warrants in the event that the trading price of our common stock exceeds $7.44 per share for twenty consecutive trading days. If exercised in full, the warrants would provide us an additional $11.8 million in cash. We have incurred substantial losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred a net loss of $17.6 million, negative cash flows from operating activities of $20.3 million, and have an accumulated deficit of $313.2 million. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and availability under our credit facility as of December 31, 2005, are sufficient to fund our operating activities and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. In future periods, we generally anticipate that our cash flows from operations will begin to increase as a result of several factors, including our expectation that our revenue will increase and our net loss will decrease in 2006 as compared to 2005. Accordingly, we expect the amount of cash used to fund our operations to decrease in 2006. However, in the event that we do not meet our revenue and earnings expectations, we may require additional cash to fund our operations. Failure to generate positive cash flow in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our intended business objectives. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Revenue recognition. We generate revenue primarily from the sale of hardware products, including third party products, through professional services, and through the sale of our software products. We sell products through direct sales channels and through distributors. Generally, revenue is generated from the sale of video processing systems and components and the sale of broadband transport and service management products. Revenue is generated primarily from the sale of complete end to end video processing systems generally referred to as turnkey solutions. Turnkey solution revenue is principally generated by the sale of complete end to end video processing systems that are designed, developed and produced according to a buyers specifications. Turnkey solutions are multi element arrangements, which consist of hardware products, software products, professional services and post contract support. Revenue is also generated from the sale of video processing component products and the sale of broadband transport and service management products and the sale of certain legacy products related to the acquisition of Copper Mountain. We sell these products through our own direct sales channels and also through distributors. 34 Table of Contents Our revenue recognition policies for turnkey solutions are in accordance with SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended, which is the authoritative guidance for recognizing revenue on software transactions and transactions in which software is more than incidental to the arrangement. SOP 97 2 requires that revenue recognized from software arrangements be allocated to each element of the arrangement based on the relative fair values of the elements, such as hardware, software products, maintenance services, installation, training or other elements. Under SOP 97 2, the determination of fair value is based on objective evidence that is specific to the vendor. If such evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of the arrangement does not exist, all revenue from the arrangement is deferred until such time that evidence of fair value does exist or until all elements of the arrangement are delivered, subject to certain limited exceptions set forth in SOP 97 2, as amended. SOP 97 2 was amended in February 1998 by SOP 98 4, Deferral of the Effective Date of a Provision of SOP 97 2 and was amended again in December 1998 by SOP 98 9, Modification of SOP 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions. Those amendments deferred and then clarified, respectively, the specification of what was considered vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the various elements in a multiple element arrangement. In the case of software arrangements that require significant production, modification or customization of software, which encompasses all of our turnkey arrangements, SOP 97 2 refers to the guidance in SOP 81 1, Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts. We recognize revenue for all turnkey arrangements in accordance with SOP 97 2 and SOP 81 1. Excluding the PCS element of the multi element arrangement, for which we have established vendor specific objective evidence of fair value (as defined by SOP 97 2), revenue from turnkey solutions is generally recognized using the percentage of completion method, as stipulated by SOP 81 1. The percentage of completion method reflects the portion of the anticipated contract revenue that has been earned that is equal to the ratio of labor effort expended to date to the anticipated final labor effort, based on current estimates of total labor effort necessary to complete the project. Revenue from the PCS element of the arrangement is deferred at the point of sale and recognized over the term of the PCS period. Generally, the terms of the turnkey solution sales provide for billing of approximately 90% of the contract value prior to the time of delivery to the customer site, with an additional approximately 9% of the contract value billed upon substantial completion of the project and the balance upon customer acceptance. In connection with certain contracts, we may perform the work prior to when the revenue is billable pursuant to the contract. The termination clauses in most of our contracts provide for the payment for the fair value of products delivered and services performed in the event of an early termination. In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance sheet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. Management reviews unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such revenue. The contractual arrangements relative to turnkey solutions include customer acceptance provisions. However, such provisions are generally considered to be incidental to the arrangement in its entirety because customers are fully obligated with respect to approximately 99% of the contract value irrespective of whether acceptance occurs or not. For direct sales of video processing systems component products not included as part of turnkey solutions and the direct sale of broadband transport products and service management products, and the sales of legacy products related to the acquisition of Copper Mountain, we recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Significant management judgments and estimates must be made in connection with the measurement of revenue in a given period. We follow specific and detailed guidelines for determining the timing of revenue recognition. At the time of the transaction, we assess a number of factors, including specific contract and purchase order terms, completion and timing of delivery to the common carrier, past transaction history with the customer, the creditworthiness of the customer, evidence of sell through to the end user, and current payment terms. Based on the results of the assessment, we may recognize revenue when the products are shipped or defer recognition of revenue until evidence of sell through occurs and cash is received. In order to recognize revenue, 35 Table of Contents we must also make a judgment regarding collectibility. Managements judgment of collectibility is applied on a customer by customer basis pursuant to our credit review policy. We sell to customers for which there is a history of successful collection and to new customers for which such history may not exist. New customers are subject to a credit review process, which evaluates the customers financial position and ability to pay. New customers are typically assigned a credit limit based on a review of their financial position. Such credit limits are only increased after a successful collection history with the customer has been established. If it is determined from the outset of an arrangement that collectibility is not probable based upon our credit review process, no credit is extended and revenue is recognized on a cash collected basis. We also maintain accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs, as necessary. Estimated sales returns and warranty costs are based on historical experience and are recorded at the time revenue is recognized, as necessary. Our products generally carry a one year warranty from the date of purchase. To date, warranty costs have been insignificant to the overall financial statements taken as a whole. Unbilled Receivables. Unbilled receivables (costs and estimated profit in excess of billings) may be recorded in connection with certain turnkey solution contracts. Unbilled receivables are not billable at the balance sheet date but are recoverable over the remaining life of the contract through billings made in accordance with contractual agreements. Management reviews unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such revenue. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first in, first out basis. We record provisions to write down our inventory and related purchase commitments for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about the future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than we estimate, additional inventory provisions may be required. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which amends FASB Statement No. 123 and will be effective for public companies for first fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We will adopt SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006 on a prospective basis. The new standard will require us to expense employee stock options and other share based payments. The FASB believes the use of a binomial lattice model for option valuation is capable of more fully reflecting certain characteristics of employee share options compared to the Black Scholes options pricing model. The new standard may be adopted in one of three ways the modified prospective transition method, a variation of the modified prospective transition method or the modified retrospective transition method. We will adopt SFAS No 123R using the Black Scholes options pricing model under the modified prospective transition method. On December 29, 2005, the Board of Directors of approved full acceleration of unvested stock options with an exercise price of $3.02 or greater previously granted under our 1998 Stock Option Plan and 1999 Non statutory Stock Option Plan held our officers and employees. Options to purchase approximately 876,550 shares of the Companys common stock, including approximately 126,390 shares held by our named executive officers, are subject to acceleration effective as of December 29, 2005. Since we currently account for share based payments using the intrinsic value method under APB 25, we expect the adoption of SFAS 123R will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. On March 29, 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 107, or SAB 107, which expresses the views of the SEC regarding the interaction between SFAS No. 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations and provides the SECs views regarding the valuation of share based payment arrangements for public companies. In particular, SAB 107 provides guidance related to share based payment transactions with non employees, the transition from nonpublic to public entity status, valuation methods (including assumptions such as expected 36 Table of Contents volatility and expected term), the accounting for certain redeemable financial instrument issues under share based payment arrangements, the classification of compensation expense, non GAAP financial measures, first time adoption of SFAS No. 123R in an interim period, capitalization of compensation costs related to share based payment arrangements, the accounting for income tax effects of share based payment arrangements upon adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the modification of employee share options prior to adoption of SFAS No. 123R, and disclosures in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations subsequent to adoption of SFAS No. 123R. We are currently evaluating the impact that SAB 107 will have on our results of operations when we adopt it in fiscal 2006. In June 2005, the FASB issued FAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB No. 20 and FAS No. 3, which replaces APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and FASB Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements, and changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. This Statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. When it is impracticable to determine the period specific effects of an accounting change, this Statement requires that the new accounting principle be applied to the balances of assets and liabilities as of the beginning of the earliest period for which retrospective application is practicable and that a corresponding adjustment be made to the opening balance of retained earnings for that period rather than being reported in an income statement. When it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect of applying a change in accounting principle to all prior periods, this Statement requires that the new accounting principle be applied as if it were adopted prospectively from the earliest date practicable. This Statement also requires that a change in depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long lived, non financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate affected by a change in accounting principle. This Statement shall be effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Its adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs An Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 (SFAS 151). SFAS 151 amends the previously issued authoritative guidance to clarify those abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, SFAS 151 requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005, and will be adopted by us beginning January 1, 2006. We do not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In November 2005, FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments (FSP 115 1) which provides guidance on determining when investments in certain debt and equity securities are considered impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary, and on measuring such impairment loss. FSP 115 1 also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other than temporary impairments. FSP 115 1 is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of FSP 115 1 will not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations or financial condition. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk As of December 31, 2005, we had $1.7 million in short term investments. An immediate 10% change in interest rate would be immaterial to our financial condition or results of operations. The principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2005, totaled $12.1 million with a related weighted average interest rate of 1.75%. We had $1.7 million in short term investments with a related 37 Table of Contents weighted average interest rate of 3.8%. Our long term debt of $4.1 million at December 31, 2005, carries a weighted average fixed interest rate of 8.0% per annum with principal payment of the entire note payable balance due in November 2007. We had $7.1 million in outstanding borrowings under our credit facility which carries an average interest rate of 7.75%. The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, and debt obligations. Maturity Fiscal Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (dollars in thousands) Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 12,111 $ $ $ $ $ 12,111 Average interest rate 1.75 % 1.75 % Short term investments $ 1,693 $ $ $ $ $ 1,693 Average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % Liabilities: Line of credit $ 7,080 $ $ $ $ $ 7,080 Average interest rate 7.75 % 7.75 % Long term debt $ $ 4,122 $ $ $ $ 4,122 Average interest rate 8.0 % 8.0 % 8.0 % The estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents approximates the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. Although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, we are not exposed to material interest rate risk associated with our operating leases. Foreign Currency Risk We transact business primarily in the U.S. dollar. To date, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenue has not been material, as the majority of our revenue is earned in U.S. dollars. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and, therefore, reduce demand for our product. For our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is the local currency, we translate assets and liabilities to U.S. dollars using the period end exchange rates and translate revenues and expenses to U.S. dollars using average exchange rates during the period. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses arising from translation of foreign subsidiary financial statements are reported as a separate component on our Statement of Stockholders Equity. To date, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on translation has not been material. 38 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
