<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: STEWART ENTERPRISES INC
CIK: 0000878522
SIC: 7200
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20121031
FILE DATE: 20121217
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are the second largest provider of funeral and cemetery products and services in the death care industry in the United States. As of October 31, 2012, we owned and operated 217 funeral homes and 141 cemeteries in 24 states within the United States and Puerto Rico. We sell cemetery property and funeral and cemetery products and services both at the time of need and on a preneed basis. Our revenues in each period are derived primarily from at need sales, preneed sales delivered out of our backlog during the period (including the accumulated trust earnings or build up in the face value of insurance contracts related to these preneed deliveries), preneed cemetery property sales and other items such as perpetual care trust earnings, finance charges on installment sale contracts for cemetery property and trust management fees. We also earn commissions on the sale of insurance funded preneed funeral contracts that will be funded by life insurance or annuity contracts issued by third party insurers when we act as an agent on the sale. General For fiscal year 2012, we generated $516.1 million in revenue and $109.7 million in gross profit, our highest revenue and gross profit in four years. We increased cemetery gross profit by 19.5 percent and funeral gross profit by 4.1 percent while expanding cemetery gross profit margin by 250 basis points and funeral gross profit margin by 100 basis points. We produced the highest annual cemetery property and preneed funeral production in five years. Earnings from continuing operations for fiscal year 2012 were $37.5 million, compared to $39.3 million for fiscal year 2011. Fiscal year 2011 results included an after tax benefit of $7.5 million from our successful settlement of our Hurricane Katrina litigation. Earnings from continuing operations per diluted share were $.43 for fiscal years 2012 and 2011. Our fiscal year 2012 results reflect an increase in cemetery revenue and a reduction in operating expenses associated with our continuous improvement initiative, including successfully integrating our operations and sales organizational structures. We generated $76.5 million in operating cash flow during fiscal year 2012 and maintained our strong balance sheet with $78.7 million of cash and marketable securities on hand and no amounts borrowed on our $150.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility at fiscal year end. During fiscal year 2012, we repurchased 4.0 million shares of our outstanding Class A common stock for $27.4 million. These purchases of common stock under our share repurchase program have resulted in a 3.5 percent decrease in total shares outstanding in the last twelve months. Also, during fiscal year 2012 we announced a 14 percent increase in our annual dividend to $.16 per share and returned $13.3 million to our shareholders through the payment of dividends, or $.155 per share. In fiscal year 2010, we began a program of developing cremation gardens and other cremation projects in our cemeteries. We have successfully completed 31 cremation projects, and we currently have 4 projects under construction and approximately 20 additional projects currently under feasibility review. We spent $8.2 million in fiscal year 2012 on these projects, compared to $4.1 million in fiscal year 2011 and plan to spend approximately $10 to $15 million in fiscal year 2013. Cemetery cremation sales improved 15 percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011, highlighting the positive returns on our ongoing cremation initiative. Additional information about our business and strategies can be found in Item 1 Business. In the second quarter, we announced an organizational restructuring and workforce reduction. The organizational changes involve a restructure of the sales organization and realignment of our geographic regions and regional management to better integrate operations and sales. The restructure of our sales organization focuses on providing more efficient and effective sales strategy, management, mentoring, training and recruiting with the ultimate goals of improving customer service and increasing sales. The new organization reduces the layers of sales management and is designed to provide increased opportunities for sales employees. During the beginning of fiscal year 2013, we will finalize our sales force restructuring by implementing changes that primarily impact our customer facing sales force, including changing our compensation structure. Separate from the changes related to the sales organization, we also announced in the second quarter a reduction of our workforce by approximately 60 employees, primarily within our corporate support services. The combined effect of our organizational restructuring and workforce reduction is expected to produce annual savings of approximately $10 million. 30 Table of Contents Our trust earnings continue to be impacted by the volatility in the financial markets. The adverse financial market conditions throughout the latter part of fiscal year 2008 and the early part of fiscal year 2009 caused a decrease in our revenue from trust activities. From fiscal years 2008 through 2012, we recognized $38.1 million, $29.3 million, $30.7 million, $32.9 million and $34.5 million, respectively, in revenue from trust related activities. During fiscal years 2008 through 2012, our trust portfolios had total returns of (29.5) percent, 15.4 percent, 14.2 percent, 4.4 percent and 11.4 percent, respectively, in our preneed trusts and (25.9) percent, 19.9 percent, 15.1 percent, 4.9 percent and 13.2 percent, respectively, in our cemetery perpetual care trusts. Financial Summary for Fiscal Year 2012 For fiscal year 2012, we reported net earnings of $35.9 million, earnings from continuing operations of $37.5 million, or $.43 per diluted share, total revenue of $516.1 million and total gross profit of $109.7 million. Our net earnings for fiscal year 2012 included a $3.3 million ($2.1 million after tax) charge due to the organizational restructuring and a separate reduction in workforce occurring primarily in the second quarter of the fiscal year. In addition, during fiscal year 2012 we sold one of our e commerce businesses resulting in a net loss from discontinued operations of $1.6 million. For fiscal year 2011, we reported net earnings of $38.6 million, earnings from continuing operations of $39.3 million, or $.43 per diluted share, total revenue of $512.7 million and total gross profit of $100.4 million. Our net earnings for fiscal year 2011 included a $12.4 million ($7.5 million after tax) insurance settlement related to the successful resolution of our litigation related to Hurricane Katrina damages and a $1.9 million ($1.2 million after tax) charge for the early extinguishment of debt as a result of the refinancing of our senior notes and revolving credit facility in April 2011. Cemetery revenue improved $4.1 million, or 1.8 percent, to $233.1 million for the year ended October 31, 2012. Cemetery property sales improved $2.4 million, or 2.3 percent, compared to fiscal year 2011. In addition, revenue related to trust activities increased by $2.4 million and merchandise delivered and services performed increased by $1.3 million. These improvements were partially offset by a $2.1 million decline in finance charges as a result of reduced interest rates in this low interest rate environment and a $1.6 million decrease in revenue recognized for cemetery property sales for which the property was not yet constructed or the down payment required for revenue recognition was not yet received. We generated $283.0 million in funeral revenue during fiscal year 2012, a $0.7 million decline from fiscal year 2011. The decrease is primarily due to a 0.9 percent decline in same store funeral services performed, which we believe is consistent with industry wide data in our markets. The decline in funeral services was partially offset by a 0.3 percent improvement in same store average revenue per funeral service. Our net preneed funeral sales increased 10.0 percent during fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011. Preneed funeral sales are deferred until a future period and have no impact on current revenue. Cemetery gross profit increased $6.6 million, or 19.5 percent, to $40.4 million for the year ended October 31, 2012. The increase in gross profit is primarily due to the improvement in revenue, as previously noted, as well as a reduction in operating expenses associated with our continuous improvement initiative, including successfully integrating our operations and sales organizational structures earlier this year. Cemetery gross profit margin improved 250 basis points to 17.3 percent for fiscal year 2012 from 14.8 percent for fiscal year 2011. Funeral gross profit increased $2.7 million, or 4.1 percent, to $69.3 million for fiscal year 2012. The improvement in gross profit is primarily due to a reduction in operating expenses associated with our continuous improvement initiative, including successfully integrating our operations and sales organizational structures earlier this year, as well as an improvement in our insurance claims experience. Funeral gross profit margin improved 100 basis points to 24.5 percent for fiscal year 2012 from 23.5 percent for fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2012, we announced a 14 percent increase in our annual dividend to $.16 per share from $.14 per share. We paid $13.3 million in dividends to our shareholders in fiscal year 2012, compared to $11.8 million in fiscal year 2011. Throughout fiscal year 2012, we repurchased 4.0 million shares of our outstanding Class A common stock for $27.4 million. As of October 31, 2012 we had $16.4 million remaining under our $125.0 million stock repurchase program. Our weighted average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 86.3 million shares for fiscal year 2012 compared to 90.5 million shares for fiscal year 2011. This decrease is primarily a result of our stock repurchase program, which yielded a positive impact on our earnings per share. Purchases of Class A common stock under our share repurchase program have resulted in a 3.5 percent decrease in total shares outstanding in the last twelve months. 31 Table of Contents Cash flow provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2012 was $76.5 million compared to $86.8 million for fiscal year 2011. The decline in cash flow is primarily due to $11.3 million of the Hurricane Katrina settlement received during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. During the third quarter of 2012, our Board of Directors appointed Dr. John B. Elstrott, Jr. to the newly created position of lead independent director. Among his primary responsibilities as lead independent director, Dr. Elstrott will act as the principal liaison between the independent directors and the CEO, assist the CEO and the Chairman of the Board with developing Board agendas and preside at Board meetings and executive sessions of the independent directors. Preneed Backlog, Trust Portfolio and Cash Impact of Sales Overview We believe that preneed funeral and cemetery property sales are two of the primary drivers of sustainable long term growth in the number of families served by our funeral homes and cemeteries. Our preneed funeral service and merchandise sales and preneed cemetery service and merchandise sales are deferred into our backlog while our preneed cemetery property sales are recognized currently in accordance with the retail land sale provisions of ASC 360 Property, Plant and Equipment. For a detailed discussion of our revenue recognition policies and how we account for our at need sales, preneed sales and trust earnings, see Notes 2(i), 2(j), 2(k), and Notes 4 through 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Backlog We estimate that as of October 31, 2012 and 2011 the future value of our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services backlog represented approximately $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, of revenue to be recognized in the future as these prepaid products and services are ultimately delivered. This is made up of approximately $1.2 billion from trust and $0.6 billion from insurance as of October 31, 2012 and approximately $1.1 billion from trust and $0.6 billion from insurance as of October 31, 2011. This represents the face value of the backlog taking into account unrealized earnings and losses on the funds held in trust and realized earnings and losses (including impairments) on the funds held in trust not yet recognized as revenue plus the earnings that are projected on the funds held in trust and the current face value of insurance contracts. It assumes no future preneed sales and assumes maturities each year consistent with our historical experience, with the majority of existing contracts expected to mature over the next 15 years. In addition, in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, the analysis assumes a weighted average annual return of approximately 5 percent and 4 percent, respectively, projected from our trusts over the expected life of the contracts and zero percent for increasing death benefits on insurance contracts. Actual results could differ materially from our assumptions used in the calculation. Proceeds of these insurance policies may be used by customers for other purposes and are portable to other funeral service providers or for completely separate purposes. Supplemental Trust Portfolio Information We maintain three types of trusts and escrow accounts: (1) preneed funeral merchandise and services, (2) preneed cemetery merchandise and services (together with the preneed funeral merchandise and services trust, preneed trusts) and (3) cemetery perpetual care. The size of the trusts depends primarily upon the level of preneed sales and maturities, the amount of dividend and interest income and investment gains or losses and funds added through acquisitions, if any. As of October 31, 2012, approximately 7 percent of our trust portfolio was invested in cash, 43 percent in equities, 34 percent in fixed income securities, 9 percent in preferred stock, 2 percent in each of real estate index funds, commodity index funds and master limited partnership index funds and 1 percent in other investments. Our trust portfolios and trust earnings continue to be impacted by volatility in the financial markets and contain a substantial proportion of equity securities. The equity securities have generally experienced increases and decreases in value commensurate with the overall financial markets. 32 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2008, we realized aggregate net losses of $35.1 million in our preneed trusts and recorded a $7.4 million tax valuation allowance. In addition, we realized aggregate net losses of $9.7 million in our cemetery perpetual care trusts. We recorded a related charge for the estimated probable funding obligation to restore the net realized losses of $13.3 million in certain of our cemetery perpetual care trusts. At their lowest quarter end point, our trust portfolios reached a net unrealized loss position of $370.6 million as of January 31, 2009. As of October 31, 2011, we recorded other than temporary impairments of $44.7 million in our preneed trusts and $11.0 million in our perpetual care trusts, and reduced the cost basis of the related securities to fair market value. These losses and impairments had no impact on our balance sheet, as the securities and corresponding liabilities are already recorded at fair market value on our balance sheet. However, the losses and impairments in our preneed trusts were allocated to the underlying contracts and will be recognized as the services and merchandise are performed and delivered in the future, reducing the revenues and gross profits we would otherwise have realized related to those contracts. After these losses and impairments and an overall improvement in the market, our net unrealized loss position was $83.1 million as of October 31, 2012. During late fiscal 2008, we reviewed alternative asset allocation models and selected new asset allocation goals that emphasize diversification and reduce volatility. We have taken advantage of the improvement in the overall markets to adjust our asset allocation towards these goals. Currently, 25 percent of our portfolio is invested in asset classes that were not represented in our trusts just three years ago, including real estate investment trusts, high yield mutual funds and master limited partnerships, among others. We have been investing in proportionately more exchange traded/index funds and fewer individual equities. We continuously evaluate our investment strategies to maintain an asset allocation that provides consistent returns with appropriate risk. The long term objectives are to preserve principal while seeking appropriate levels of current income and capital appreciation in order to provide returns that match inflation plus a reasonable return. The following table presents the annual realized return in our trusts for fiscal years 2002 through 2012. The returns represent interest, dividends and realized capital gains or losses, but not unrealized capital gains or losses. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 4.3% 4.8 % 2.6 % 4.3 % 5.1 % 4.8 % (3.3 )% (.4 )% 1.7 % 4.4 % 3.5 % The following table presents the annual total returns in our trusts for fiscal years 2002 through 2012 including realized and unrealized gains and losses: 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (6.4)% 16.1 % 4.1 % 6.0 % 12.2 % 7.7 % (28.5 )% 16.6 % 14.4 % 4.6 % 11.9 % The following table presents the total returns of our preneed trusts and cemetery perpetual care trusts including realized and unrealized gains and losses for the periods indicated: Preneed Trusts Cemetery PerpetualCare Trusts For the year ended October 31, 2012 11.4 % 13.2 % For three years ended October 31, 2012 9.9 % 11.0 % For five years ended October 31, 2012 1.6 % 4.0 % For ten years ended October 31, 2012 5.5 % 6.1 % During fiscal years 2012 and 2011, we experienced positive trends in the overall market and in our preneed and perpetual care trusts. For the years ended October 31, 2012 and 2011, our preneed trusts experienced a total return, including both realized and unrealized losses, of 11.4 percent and 4.4 percent, respectively, and our cemetery perpetual care trusts experienced a total return, including both realized and unrealized losses, of 13.2 percent and 4.9 percent, respectively. In our preneed trusts, the fair market value of the investments in the trusts were $68.5 million and $101.1 million lower than our cost basis as of October 31, 2012 and October 31, 2011, respectively. In our cemetery perpetual care trusts, the fair market value of our investments were $14.6 million and $30.7 million lower than our cost basis as of October 31, 2012 and October 31, 2011, respectively. For additional information see Notes 4, 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. The cost basis of our trust assets reflect the price we originally paid for the securities, reduced for other than temporary impairments we have recorded pursuant to GAAP. 33 Table of Contents We believe that the trust investments will appreciate in value over the long term. We continue to monitor our investment portfolio closely. Although we have significant unrealized and unallocated losses in our trust portfolio, as of October 31, 2012 and October 31, 2011, we had $187.1 million and $179.0 million, respectively, in trust earnings, net of losses, that have been realized and allocated to contracts that will be recognized in the future as the underlying contracts are performed. Securities with unrealized losses totaling $103.3 million at October 31, 2012 were also in a loss position at October 31, 2011, down from $135.2 million at the end of the last fiscal year. For additional information see Notes 4, 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. We perform a separate analysis to determine whether our preneed contracts are in a loss position and whether a charge to earnings to record a liability for any expected losses is required. No charge has ever been required. For additional information, see Note 2(m) to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 and Overview of Critical Accounting Policies. We generate revenue related to the trusts from investment management fees earned by our subsidiary, ITI. During fiscal years 2008 through 2012, these fees amounted to $10.0 million, $8.0 million, $9.4 million, $10.0 million and $11.7 million, respectively. These fees are based on the fair market value of the investments in the preneed trust portfolio and the cemetery perpetual care trusts. Significant changes in the fair market value of the portfolio impact the fees earned by the Company. The following table presents the significant sectors in which our trust portfolio is invested and the percentage of each sector to the total trust portfolio as of October 31, 2012 (in millions). Preneed Trusts Cemetery Perpetual Care Trusts Sector Fair MarketValue Percentageof Portfolio Fair MarketValue Percentageof Portfolio Cash and mutual funds $ 259.5 44 % $ 122.0 46 % Financial Services $ 68.0 11 % $ 47.5 18 % Information Technology $ 50.3 8 % $ 12.3 5 % Healthcare Services $ 47.0 8 % $ 19.1 7 % Issuer specific investments in the financial services sector represented $68.0 million of the fair market value of our preneed trust portfolio as of October 31, 2012, of which 60 percent related to preferred stock, 24 percent related to investments in common stock and 16 percent related to fixed income securities. Issuer specific investments in the financial services sector represented $47.5 million of the fair market value of our cemetery perpetual care trust portfolio as of October 31, 2012, of which 66 percent related to preferred stock, 21 percent related to fixed income securities and 13 percent related to investments in common stock. Issuer specific investments in the information technology sector represented $50.3 million of the fair market value of our preneed trust portfolio as of October 31, 2012, of which 97 percent related to investments in common stock and 3 percent related to fixed income securities. Issuer specific investments in the information technology sector represented $12.3 million of the fair market value of our cemetery perpetual care trust portfolio as of October 31, 2012, of which 93 percent related to investments in common stock and 7 percent related to fixed income securities. Issuer specific investments in the healthcare services sector represented $47.0 million of the fair market value of our preneed trust portfolio as of October 31, 2012, of which 97 percent related to investments in common stock and 3 percent related to fixed income securities. Issuer specific investments in the healthcare services sector represented $19.1 million of the fair market value of our cemetery perpetual care trust portfolio as of October 31, 2012, of which 90 percent related to investments in common stock and 10 percent related to fixed income securities. 34 Table of Contents The following table presents the significant sectors in which our trust portfolio currently has unrealized losses and the percentage of each sector to the total unrealized losses as of October 31, 2012 (in millions). We may have other investments in these sectors through our mutual fund holdings. Preneed Trusts Cemetery Perpetual Care Trusts Sector UnrealizedLosses Percentage ofTotalUnrealizedLosses UnrealizedLosses Percentage ofTotalUnrealizedLosses Financial Services $ 2.1 3 % $ 1.1 5 % Information Technology $ 32.1 38 % $ 8.5 35 % Healthcare Services $ 5.8 7 % $ 1.5 6 % Risks associated with the financial services sector include risk of failure of various large financial institutions, changing government regulation, interest rates, cost of capital funds, credit losses and volatility in financial markets. The information technology sector risks include overall economic conditions, short product cycles, rapid obsolescence of products, competition and government regulation. The healthcares services sector risks include the failure of research and development products, class action litigation related to adverse side effects, changes in the level of U.S. Government funding for Medicare and Medicaid, the loss of patent protection on existing pharmaceutical drugs and the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Impact of Preneed Sales on Near Term Cash The impact of preneed sales on near term cash flow depends primarily on the commissions paid on the sale, the timing of the tax payments on the sale, whether the sale is funded by trust or insurance, the portion of the sale required to be placed into trust and the terms of the particular contracts such as the size of the down payment required and the length of the contract. We are required to place a portion of each cash installment paid by the customer into trust; therefore, we may be required to use our own cash to cover a portion of the commission due on the installment from the customer. Accordingly, preneed trust sales are generally cash flow negative initially, but may become cash flow positive at varying times over the life of the contract, depending upon the trusting requirements and the terms of the particular contract. Generally preneed insurance sales are slightly cash flow positive as commissions received generally exceed the commissions paid to sales counselors. Commissions related to preneed funeral and preneed cemetery services and merchandise sales are expensed as incurred. Cash flows related to earnings in our trusts, deposits and withdrawals and related matters and our cemetery perpetual care funding obligations are described in Notes 4, 5 and 6 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Overview of Critical Accounting Policies The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require us to make estimates and assumptions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgment. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Deferred Revenue and Revenue Recognition Funeral revenue is recognized when funeral services are ultimately performed. Our funeral receivables included in current receivables primarily consist of amounts due for funeral services already performed. We sell price guaranteed prearranged funeral contracts through various programs providing for future funeral services at prices prevailing when the agreements are signed. Revenues associated with sales of prearranged funeral contracts, which include accumulated trust earnings, are deferred until such time that the funeral services are ultimately performed. See Note 2(i) to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. 35 Table of Contents Revenue associated with cemetery merchandise and services is recognized when the service is ultimately performed or merchandise is actually delivered. Revenue associated with preneed cemetery property interment rights is recognized in accordance with the retail land sales provision of ASC 360 Property, Plant and Equipment. Under this guidance, revenue from constructed cemetery property is not recognized until 10 percent of the sales price has been collected. Revenue related to the preneed sale of cemetery property prior to completion of its construction is recognized on a percentage of completion method of accounting. See Note 2(j) to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. We defer all dividends and interest earned and net capital gains and losses realized by our preneed trusts including impairments until the underlying service or the merchandise is delivered. Unrealized capital gains and losses are not allocated to specific contracts. From time to time, unidentified contracts are presented to us primarily relating to contracts sold prior to the time we acquired certain businesses. In addition, from time to time, we have identified in our backlog, certain contracts in which services or merchandise have already been delivered. Using historical trends and statistical analysis, we have recorded an estimated net debit for these items. Perpetual Care Funding Obligation Certain states allow us to withdraw realized capital gains from cemetery perpetual care trusts, while other states prohibit these withdrawals. These earnings and related funds are intended to defray cemetery maintenance costs and are recorded as revenue. In the event that we have been allowed to withdraw realized gains from the trust and then realize net losses in the trust, we may determine we have a funding obligation to restore the net realized losses of the trust. A charge is recorded in the statement of earnings at the time it is considered probable that we will be required to restore the realized losses. Loss Contract Analysis Each quarter we perform an analysis to determine whether our preneed contracts are in a loss position, which would necessitate a charge to earnings. For this analysis, we add the sales prices of the underlying contracts and realized earnings, then subtract realized losses to derive the net amount of proceeds for contracts as of that particular balance sheet date. We then consider unrealized gains and losses based on current market prices quoted for the investments, but we do not include future expected returns on the investments in our analysis. We compare the amount of adjusted proceeds after considering net unrealized gains and losses to the estimated direct costs to deliver the contracts, which consist primarily of funeral and cemetery merchandise costs and salaries, supplies and equipment related to the delivery of a preneed contract. If a deficiency were to exist, we would record a charge to earnings and a corresponding liability for the expected loss on the delivery of those contracts from our deferred revenue. Due to the positive margins of our preneed contracts and the trust portfolio returns we have experienced in prior years, there is currently sufficient capacity for additional market depreciation before a contract loss would occur. No such charges have ever been recorded. Variable Interest Entities We consolidate our preneed trusts and our cemetery perpetual care trusts. For a more detailed discussion of our related accounting policies, see Notes 2(k) and 4 through 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Insurance funded preneed funeral contracts are not recorded on our balance sheet, as described in Note 2(i) to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Determination of Whether Securities Held in Trusts are Other Than Temporarily Impaired We have significant unrealized losses in certain securities held in our trust portfolios. Determining whether these losses are temporary or other than temporary is inherently subjective. To determine whether an unrealized loss is other than temporary, we analyze the securities on an individual trust account basis as well as a security by security basis. The evaluation first considers whether we have sufficient liquidity within each individual trust account to hold the investments in an unrealized loss position for an extended period of time. The liquidity assessment of the individual trust accounts includes estimates of annual trust income, historical deposits and 36 Table of Contents withdrawals, cash balances, upcoming debt investment maturities and other liquidity alternatives. We also evaluate consensus analyst recommendations, concerns specific to the issuer, overall market performance and annual returns required to recover the loss. We also evaluate whether we have the intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. If we determine that an unrealized loss is other than temporary, we must write down the cost basis of the impaired security to fair value at that time, which would generally be the current trading price. Any subsequent recovery in fair value cannot be recognized until the security is sold. Any losses realized from other than temporary impairments of securities held in our trusts generally would have no immediate impact on our balance sheet, because our trust portfolio securities are already carried at fair market value on our balance sheet. In our preneed trusts, losses from other than temporary impaired securities generally would have no immediate impact on our revenues, margins, earnings or cash flow. However, such losses would be allocated to the underlying contracts and would have an adverse impact on the amount of future revenue recognized from the trusts at the time the specific contract is ultimately performed. Accordingly, a determination that any significant losses in these trust portfolios are other than temporary could have a material adverse effect on our future trust earnings. In our cemetery perpetual care trusts, such losses generally would have no immediate impact on our revenues, margins, earnings or cash flow, unless the losses caused us to realize a probable funding obligation as described in Item 1A Risk Factors and Overview of Critical Accounting Policies Perpetual Care Funding Obligation. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Sales Cancellations Management must make estimates of the collectibility of our accounts receivable. We establish a reserve for uncollectible installment contracts and trade accounts based on a range of percentages applied to accounts receivable aging categories. These percentages are based on an analysis of our historical collection and write off experience. In addition, we establish a reserve for sales cancellations for cemetery property sales based on historical cancellations and recent write off activity. This reserve is recorded as a reduction in cemetery revenue. We also establish an allowance for cancellations of insurance and third party commissions based on historical experience for cancellations of insurance contracts within the period of refundability. These estimates are impacted by a number of factors, including changes in the economy and demographic or competitive changes in our areas of operation. If circumstances change, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could change by a material amount. Depreciation of Long Lived Assets Buildings and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, primarily using the straight line method. Buildings and building improvement items are generally depreciated over a period ranging from 10 to 40 years. Equipment is generally depreciated over the following ranges: light equipment, 5 to 10 years; heavy equipment, 10 years; computer equipment and software, 3 to 6 years; and crematory equipment, 5 to 20 years. Vehicles are generally depreciated over 5 to 7 years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the term of the lease or the life of the asset. These estimates of the useful lives may be affected by such factors as changes in regulatory requirements or changing market conditions. Valuation of Long Lived Assets We review the carrying value of our long lived assets whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. This review is based on our projections of anticipated undiscounted future cash flows and compares the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by those assets to the carrying amount of those assets. The net carrying value of any assets not fully recoverable would be reduced to fair value. While we believe that our estimates of undiscounted future cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such cash flows and comparable sales values could materially affect our evaluations. 37 Table of Contents Valuation of Goodwill In our determination of reporting units for goodwill impairment testing purposes, both qualitative and quantitative characteristics are evaluated. Gross margins are analyzed for purposes of determining whether or not our operating regions are considered economically similar. Qualitative factors include the nature of our products and services, consistency of products and services and the delivery of those products and services in our funeral homes and cemeteries, the similarity of class of customers across all locations and regulations in different jurisdictions. Based on our evaluation, we have eleven reporting units. Because goodwill impairment tests are applied at the reporting unit level, a change in a reporting unit can have a material effect on the outcome of the test. See Note 2(g) to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for additional information. Goodwill of a reporting unit must be tested for impairment on at least an annual basis. We conduct our annual goodwill impairment analysis during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. In addition to an annual review, we assess the impairment of goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may be greater than its fair value. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. Goodwill was allocated to these reporting units based on the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill is determined in a manner similar to the amount of goodwill determined in a business combination. That is, we allocate the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. We calculate the fair value, or enterprise value, for each of the reporting units based on a discounted cash flow analysis, as supplemented by comparing them to the trading multiples of companies in our industry and supplier industries calculated as enterprise value divided by EBITDA. We also review multiples paid in recent acquisition transactions within the deathcare industry. In fiscal year 2011, we adopted guidance that simplified the testing for goodwill impairment. The guidance permits an entity to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining if performing the two step goodwill impairment test is necessary. In April 2012, we announced an organizational restructuring and a separate workforce reduction. The organizational changes involved a restructure of the sales organization and realignment of our geographic regions and regional management. Due to the realignment of certain regions, we evaluated the economic similarity of our regions and determined that two of our funeral reporting units were impacted by this change. Our former Southeastern region was split in two, with the Northern part of the region forming the new Southeastern region and the Southern part of the region combining with the former Puerto Rico region to form the new South Florida/Puerto Rico region. For these two funeral reporting units, which have a combined goodwill balance of $58.6 million, we proceeded directly to step one of the impairment test and performed a quantitative analysis, which was performed due to the fact these are two new regions and a previous analysis was not available. This reorganization required a reallocation of goodwill. From a qualitative perspective, in evaluating whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a probability of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, relevant events and circumstances were taken into account, with greater weight assigned to events and circumstances that most affect a reporting units fair value or the carrying amounts of its assets. Items that were considered include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) macroeconomic conditions; (2) industry and market conditions; (3) costs of merchandise or labor; (4) overall financial performance; (5) other entity specific events, such as changes in management or key personnel; (6) events affecting a reporting unit, such as a change in the composition of net assets or an expected disposition; and (7) a change in our share price. In addition, we also considered recent fair value calculations for each reporting unit and determined that there was a significant difference between fair value and the carrying amount. After assessing these and other factors, we determined that is was more likely than not that the fair value of all of our reporting units was greater than the carrying amounts. 38 Table of Contents For the two reporting units for which we performed a quantitative analysis, we determined that goodwill was not impaired. The goodwill impairment test involves estimates and management judgment. We determined the fair value of the reporting units based on present value techniques including discounted cash flows. The discounted cash flow valuation uses projections of future cash flows and includes assumptions concerning future operating performance and economic conditions that may differ from actual future cash flows. In projecting our cash flows, we used growth rates generally ranging from one to five percent in revenues and costs, and also considered additional cremation gardens and other mausoleum projects that are currently under construction. For the discount rate, we used 7.5 percent, which reflected our weighted average cost of capital determined based on our industry, suppliers and capital structure as adjusted for equity risk premiums and size risk premiums based on our market capitalization. Fair value is calculated as the sum of the projected discounted cash flows of the reporting unit over the next five years and terminal value at the end of those five years. The terminal value is calculated as the projected EBITDA at the end of the five year period divided by the discount rate minus terminal growth rates ranging from 2 to 3 percent. We prepared a sensitivity analysis of the terminal values and used the midpoint enterprise value as our best estimate. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of certain items, such as deferred revenue, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. The following items are reviewed to determine if a valuation allowance is required: net operating losses (federal, state and United States possessions), capital loss carry forwards and deferred tax assets (federal, state and United States possessions). To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change in this allowance in a period, we include an expense or benefit within the tax provision in the statement of earnings. Approximately 60 percent of the October 31, 2012 fair market value of our preneed trusts are in trusts for which the Company is the grantor. For these trusts (unlike the remaining trusts for which the customers are the grantors), we retain the income tax characteristics of all earnings as realized in the trust. For example, capital gains and losses in the trusts are capital gains and losses on our tax returns. In addition, we must recognize these earnings currently for tax purposes, while for book purposes they are deferred. Realized capital losses in the trusts for which we are the grantor, if we have or expect insufficient offsetting capital gains, may require us to record a valuation allowance against the related deferred tax asset (capital loss carryforward), which increases our current period effective tax rate and reduces our current period reported net earnings. Essentially, the current period valuation allowance reflects the fact that, if we cannot generate sufficient capital gains in the future against which to use the tax benefit of the capital loss (which is limited to five years), when we perform the contract, we will pay higher taxes. This tax relationship does not occur with respect to trusts for which the customer is the grantor, because all of their earnings are service revenue and thus ordinary income to us, and we do not recognize the revenue for either tax or book purposes until the underlying contract is performed. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, we adopted the guidance on uncertain tax positions in ASC 740 Income Taxes. This guidance prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. We have reviewed our income tax positions and identified certain tax deductions or revenue deferrals that are not certain. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local or non U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for fiscal years before 2008. To the extent tax, interest and penalties are not assessed with respect to uncertain tax positions in the future, amounts accrued will be reduced and reflected as a reduction of tax expense, interest expense or other expense. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods, we may need to change our allowance, which could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Estimated Insurance Loss Liabilities We purchase comprehensive general liability, automobile liability and workers compensation insurance coverages structured within a large deductible/self insured retention premium rating program. This program results in the Company being primarily self insured for claims and associated costs and losses covered by these policies but below our deductible. With respect to health insurance, we purchase individual and aggregate stop loss coverage with a large deductible. This program results in the Company being primarily self insured for claims and associated costs up to the amount of the deductible, with claims in excess of the deductible amount being covered by insurance. We also have insurance coverage related to property damage, incremental costs and property operating expenses we incur due to damage caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters. Our policy is to record such amounts when recovery is probable, which generally means we have reached an agreement with the insurance company. For additional information, see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Results of Operations The following discussion segregates the financial results of our continuing operations into our three segments: funeral, cemetery and corporate trust management. For a discussion of our segments, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Comparison of Fiscal Year 2012 to Fiscal Year 2011 Year Ended October 31, 2012 Compared to Year Ended October 31, 2011 Continuing Operations Funeral Operations Year Ended October 31, 2012 2011 Increase(Decrease) (In millions) Funeral Revenue: Funeral Home Locations $ 267.7 $ 267.6 $ .1 Corporate Trust Management (1) 15.3 16.1 (.8 ) Total Funeral Revenue $ 283.0 $ 283.7 $ (.7 ) Funeral Costs: Funeral Home Locations $ 212.7 $ 216.2 $ (3.5 ) Corporate Trust Management (1) 1.0 .9 .1 Total Funeral Costs $ 213.7 $ 217.1 $ (3.4 ) Funeral Gross Profit: Funeral Home Locations $ 55.0 $ 51.4 $ 3.6 Corporate Trust Management (1) 14.3 15.2 (.9 ) Total Funeral Gross Profit $ 69.3 $ 66.6 $ 2.7 Same Store Analysis for the Years Ended October 31, 2012 and 2011 Change in Average Revenue Change in Same Store Same Store Cremation Rate Per Funeral Service Funeral Services 2012 2011 0.3% (1) (0.9 )% 43.1 % 42.5 % (1) Corporate trust management consists of trust management fees and funeral merchandise and service trust earnings recognized with respect to preneed contracts delivered during the period. Trust management fees are established by the Company at rates consistent with industry norms based on the fair market value of assets 40 Table of Contents managed and are paid by the trusts to our subsidiary, Investors Trust, Inc. The trust earnings represent the amount of distributable earnings as stipulated by our respective trust agreements that are generated by the trusts over the life of the preneed contracts and allocated to those products and services delivered during the relevant periods. See Notes 4 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for information regarding the cost basis and market value of the trust assets and current performance of the trusts (i.e., current realized gains and losses, interest income and dividends). Trust management fees included in funeral revenue for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were $5.4 million and $4.7 million, respectively. Funeral trust earnings recognized in funeral revenue for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 with respect to preneed contracts delivered were $9.9 and $11.4 million, respectively. Funeral revenue declined $0.7 million, or 0.2 percent, to $283.0 million for fiscal year 2012. This decline is primarily due to a 0.9 percent decrease in same store funeral services, which we believe is consistent with industry wide data in our markets. This decrease was partially offset by a 0.3 percent improvement in same store average revenue per funeral service. The cremation rate for our same store operations was 43.1 percent for the year ended October 31, 2012 compared to 42.5 percent for the year ended October 31, 2011. Funeral gross profit increased $2.7 million, or 4.1 percent, to $69.3 million for fiscal year 2012 compared to $66.6 million for fiscal year 2011. The improvement in gross profit is primarily due to a reduction in operating expenses associated with our continuous improvement initiative, including successfully integrating our operations and sales organizational structures, as well as an improvement in our insurance claims experience. Funeral gross profit margin improved 100 basis points to 24.5 percent for fiscal year 2012 from 23.5 percent for fiscal year 2011. Cemetery Operations Year Ended October 31, 2012 2011 Increase(Decrease) (In millions) Cemetery Revenue: Cemetery Locations $ 223.5 $ 220.8 $ 2.7 Corporate Trust Management (1) 9.6 8.2 1.4 Total Cemetery Revenue $ 233.1 $ 229.0 $ 4.1 Cemetery Costs: Cemetery Locations $ 191.8 $ 194.4 $ (2.6 ) Corporate Trust Management (1) .9 .8 .1 Total Cemetery Costs $ 192.7 $ 195.2 $ (2.5 ) Cemetery Gross Profit: Cemetery Locations $ 31.7 $ 26.4 $ 5.3 Corporate Trust Management (1) 8.7 7.4 1.3 Total Cemetery Gross Profit $ 40.4 $ 33.8 $ 6.6 (1) Corporate trust management consists of trust management fees and cemetery merchandise and service trust earnings recognized with respect to preneed contracts delivered during the period. Trust management fees are established by the Company at rates consistent with industry norms based on the fair market value of assets managed and are paid by the trusts to our subsidiary, Investors Trust, Inc. The trust earnings represent the amount of distributable earnings as stipulated by our respective trust agreements that are generated by the trusts over the life of the preneed contracts and allocated to those products and services delivered during the relevant periods. See Notes 5 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for information regarding the cost basis and market value of the trust assets and current performance of the trusts (i.e., current realized gains and losses, interest income and dividends). Trust management fees included in cemetery revenue for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were $6.3 million and $5.3 million, respectively, and cemetery trust earnings included in cemetery revenue for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 recognized with respect to preneed contracts delivered were $3.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively. Perpetual care trust earnings of $9.6 million and $8.6 million for fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively, are included in the revenues and gross profit of the cemetery segment and are reflected in cemetery locations. See Notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for information regarding the cemetery perpetual care trusts. 41 Table of Contents Cemetery revenue increased $4.1 million, or 1.8 percent, to $233.1 million for fiscal year 2012. Cemetery property sales improved $2.4 million, or 2.3 percent, compared to fiscal year 2011. In addition, revenue related to trust activities increased by $2.4 million and merchandise delivered and services performed increased by $1.3 million. These improvements were partially offset by a $2.1 million decline in finance charges as a result of reduced interest rates in this low interest rate environment and a $1.6 million decrease in revenue recognized for cemetery property sales for which the property was not yet constructed or the down payment required for revenue recognition was not yet received. Cemetery gross profit increased $6.6 million, or 19.5 percent, to $40.4 million for fiscal year 2012. The increase in gross profit is primarily due to the improvement in revenue, as previously noted, as well as a reduction in operating expenses associated with our continuous improvement initiative, including successfully integrating our operations and sales organizational structures. Cemetery gross profit margin improved 250 basis points to 17.3 percent for fiscal year 2012 from 14.8 percent for fiscal year 2011. Acquisitions During the year ended October 31, 2012, we acquired two funeral businesses. These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method, and the acquired assets and liabilities were valued at their estimated fair values. The results of operations for these businesses, which are considered immaterial, have been included in consolidated results since the acquisition date. For additional information, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Discontinued Operations During fiscal year 2012, we sold one of our e commerce businesses with the results of its operations and the related impairment reported within discontinued operations. For additional information, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Other Corporate general and administrative expenses increased $1.7 million to $28.5 million for fiscal year 2012, compared to $26.8 million for fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2012, we increased spending on marketing and consumer research, as well as professional and consulting fees associated with the operations and sales integration, which we believe will provide benefits in the future. In addition, we experienced an increase in health care expenses. Results for fiscal year 2011 include $12.4 million related to the settlement of Hurricane Katrina insurance litigation. The settlement increased fiscal year 2011 pre tax earnings by $12.4 million and net earnings by $7.5 million. We recorded $3.3 million in restructuring and other charges during fiscal year 2012. This charge was primarily related to separation pay, termination benefits and a non cash asset impairment due to the restructuring of the operations and sales organizational structure, as well as a separate reduction in workforce associated with our continuous improvement initiative announced in April 2012. For the year ended October 31, 2012, the decline in costs associated with the restructuring of our operations and sales organizational structure, as well as our reduction in force, are consistent with the previously announced expectations of approximately $10 million on an annual basis, realized in part in fiscal year 2012, and expected to be realized in full in fiscal year 2013. For additional information, see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. As a result of the refinancing of our senior notes and revolving credit facility in April 2011, we recorded a $1.9 million charge for the early extinguishment of debt during fiscal year 2011. 42 Table of Contents The effective tax rate for continuing operations for the year ended October 31, 2012 was 33.3 percent compared to 37.7 percent for fiscal year 2011. For the year ended October 31, 2012, we benefited from a $2.1 million reduction in the valuation allowance for capital losses, associated with the positive performance of our trust portfolio during fiscal year 2012. During the year ended October 31, 2011, we recorded a $2.9 million one time, non cash charge to income tax expense as a result of the revaluation of our deferred tax asset due to a change in Puerto Rican tax legislation. This charge to tax expense was offset primarily by a reduction in the valuation allowance related to our capital loss carryforward, due in part to the positive performance of our trust portfolio during fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2012, we repurchased 4.0 million shares of our Class A common stock for $27.4 million under our stock repurchase program. As of October 31, 2012, we had $16.4 million remaining under our $125.0 million stock repurchase program. Our weighted average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 86.3 million shares for the year ended October 31, 2012 compared to 90.5 million shares for fiscal year 2011. The decrease is a direct result of our stock repurchase program, which has yielded a positive impact on our earnings per share. Cash and cash equivalents increased $2.5 million from October 31, 2011 to October 31, 2012 primarily due to cash provided by operations, offset by $27.4 million in purchases made under our stock repurchase program, $20.8 million in additions to property, plant and equipment, $13.3 million of dividends paid and a $9.8 million net increase in marketable securities. Current and long term receivables increased $3.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively, from October 31, 2011 to October 31, 2012 primarily due to an increase in sales. Goodwill increased $2.5 million from October 31, 2011 to October 31, 2012 primarily due to an acquisition made in the second quarter of 2012. Cemetery property increased $5.7 million from October 31, 2011 to October 31, 2012 primarily due to the continued investments in numerous construction inventory development projects. Long term deferred taxes decreased $17.7 million from October 31, 2011 to October 31, 2012 resulting primarily from the tax accounting change approved in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. Preneed funeral receivables and trust investments, preneed cemetery receivables and trust investments, cemetery perpetual care trust investments, deferred preneed funeral and cemetery receipts held in trust and perpetual care trusts corpus were all positively impacted by the improvement in the market value of our trust assets during the year ended October 31, 2012. For additional information, see Notes 4, 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Accrued payroll increased $1.8 million from October 31, 2011 to October 31, 2012 primarily due to the timing of compensation payments. Other current liabilities increased $4.7 million from October 31, 2011 to October 31, 2012 primarily due to a $3.4 million increase in dividends payable. The Board accelerated the regular quarterly cash dividend, typically paid in January, to be payable on December 26, 2012 to holders of record of Class A and Class B common stock as of the close of business on December 12, 2012. Preneed Sales into the Backlog Net preneed funeral sales increased 10.0 percent during the year ended October 31, 2012 compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The revenues from our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and service sales are deferred into our backlog and are not included in our previously noted operating results presented above. We had $158.8 million in net preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and service sales (including $81.4 million related to third party insurance funded preneed funeral contracts) during the year ended October 31, 2012 to be recognized in the future as these prepaid products and services are delivered, compared to net sales of $148.1 million (including $78.9 million related to third party insurance funded preneed funeral contracts) for the year ended October 31, 2011. Insurance funded preneed funeral contracts which will be funded by life insurance or annuity contracts issued by third party insurers are not reflected in the consolidated balance sheets. 43 Table of Contents Comparison of Fiscal Year 2011 to Fiscal Year 2010 Year Ended October 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended October 31, 2010 Continuing Operations Funeral Operations Year Ended October 31, 2011 2010 Increase (In millions) Funeral Revenue: Funeral Home Locations $ 267.6 $ 260.1 $ 7.5 Corporate Trust Management (1) 16.1 15.8 .3 Total Funeral Revenue $ 283.7 $ 275.9 $ 7.8 Funeral Costs: Funeral Home Locations $ 216.2 $ 209.4 $ 6.8 Corporate Trust Management (1) .9 .9 Total Funeral Costs $ 217.1 $ 210.3 $ 6.8 Funeral Gross Profit: Funeral Home Locations $ 51.4 $ 50.7 $ .7 Corporate Trust Management (1) 15.2 14.9 .3 Total Funeral Gross Profit $ 66.6 $ 65.6 $ 1.0 Same Store Analysis for the Years Ended October 31, 2011 and 2010 Change in Average Revenue Change in Same Store Same Store Cremation Rate Per Funeral Service Funeral Services 2011 2010 1.2%(1) 0.6 % 42.5 % 41.9 % (1) Corporate trust management consists of trust management fees and funeral merchandise and service trust earnings recognized with respect to preneed contracts delivered during the period. Trust management fees are established by the Company at rates consistent with industry norms based on the fair market value of assets managed and are paid by the trusts to our subsidiary, Investors Trust, Inc. The trust earnings represent the amount of distributable earnings as stipulated by our respective trust agreements that are generated by the trusts over the life of the preneed contracts and allocated to those products and services delivered during the relevant periods. See Notes 4 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for information regarding the cost basis and market value of the trust assets and current performance of the trusts (i.e., current realized gains and losses, interest income and dividends). Trust management fees included in funeral revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were $4.7 million and $4.5 million, respectively. Funeral trust earnings recognized in funeral revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 with respect to preneed contracts delivered were $11.4 and $11.3 million, respectively. Funeral revenue increased $7.8 million, or 2.8 percent, to $283.7 million in fiscal year 2011 from $275.9 million in fiscal year 2010. Our same store funeral operations generated a 1.6 percent increase in average revenue per traditional funeral service and a 3.3 percent increase in average revenue per cremation service. These increases were partially offset by a shift in mix to lower priced cremation services resulting in an overall increase of 1.2 percent in same store average revenue per funeral service. Same store funeral services increased 0.6 percent, or 302 events. The cremation rate for our same store operations was 42.5 percent for fiscal year 2011 compared to 41.9 percent for fiscal year 2010. Funeral gross profit increased $1.0 million, or 1.5 percent, to $66.6 million for fiscal year 2011 compared to $65.6 million for fiscal year 2010. The improvement in funeral gross profit is primarily due to the increase in funeral revenue, as previously noted, partially offset by an increase in funeral expenses. This increase in expenses is primarily due to changes made in our compensation package to incentivize improvements in operational performance, as well as an increase in health and general liability insurance, funeral bad debt and energy costs. 44 Table of Contents Net preneed funeral sales increased 1.8 percent during fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010. Preneed funeral sales are deferred until the underlying contracts are performed and have no impact on current revenue. Cemetery Operations Year Ended October 31, 2011 2010 Increase(Decrease) (In millions) Cemetery Revenue: Cemetery Locations $ 220.8 $ 216.5 $ 4.3 Corporate Trust Management (1) 8.2 7.5 .7 Total Cemetery Revenue $ 229.0 $ 224.0 $ 5.0 Cemetery Costs: Cemetery Locations $ 194.4 $ 192.0 $ 2.4 Corporate Trust Management (1) .8 .9 (.1 ) Total Cemetery Costs $ 195.2 $ 192.9 $ 2.3 Cemetery Gross Profit: Cemetery Locations $ 26.4 $ 24.5 $ 1.9 Corporate Trust Management (1) 7.4 6.6 .8 Total Cemetery Gross Profit $ 33.8 $ 31.1 $ 2.7 (1) Corporate trust management consists of trust management fees and cemetery merchandise and service trust earnings recognized with respect to preneed contracts delivered during the period. Trust management fees are established by the Company at rates consistent with industry norms based on the fair market value of assets managed and are paid by the trusts to our subsidiary, Investors Trust, Inc. The trust earnings represent the amount of distributable earnings as stipulated by our respective trust agreements that are generated by the trusts over the life of the preneed contracts and allocated to those products and services delivered during the relevant periods. See Notes 5 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for information regarding the cost basis and market value of the trust assets and current performance of the trusts (i.e., current realized gains and losses, interest income and dividends). Trust management fees included in cemetery revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were $5.3 million and $4.9 million, respectively, and cemetery trust earnings included in cemetery revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 recognized with respect to preneed contracts delivered were $2.9 million and $2.6 million, respectively. Perpetual care trust earnings of $8.6 million and $7.4 million for fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, are included in the revenues and gross profit of the cemetery segment and are reflected in cemetery locations. See Notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for information regarding the cemetery perpetual care trusts. Cemetery revenue increased $5.0 million, or 2.2 percent, to $229.0 million in fiscal year 2011 primarily due to a $7.3 million, or 7.6 percent, increase in cemetery property sales, coupled with a $1.9 million improvement in revenue related to trust activities of which $1.2 million of the increase relates to cemetery perpetual care trust earnings. These increases were partially offset by a $1.2 million reduction in finance charges as a result of reduced interest rates in this low interest rate environment and a $0.9 million decrease in merchandise delivered. Cemetery gross profit increased $2.7 million, or 8.7 percent, to $33.8 million for fiscal year 2011, even after considering a $1.1 million positive impact in fiscal year 2010 of perpetual care withdrawals related to prior cancellations which we used to offset our perpetual care expenses. The improvement in cemetery gross profit is primarily due to the $5.0 million increase in revenue, as previously noted above. 45 Table of Contents Acquisitions During the year ended October 31, 2011, we acquired two funeral home/cemetery combinations for approximately $9.1 million. The acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method, and the acquired assets and liabilities were valued at their estimated fair values. The results of operations for these businesses, which are considered immaterial, have been included in consolidated results since the acquisition date. For additional information, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In addition, we completed the construction of one additional stand alone funeral home and one funeral home that is part of a combination operation and purchased a funeral home building that we previously leased. Discontinued Operations During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we sold one business for a gain of $0.4 million, net of taxes, which is included in discontinued operations. For additional information, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Other Corporate general and administrative expenses decreased $1.2 million to $26.8 million for fiscal year 2011, compared to $28.0 million for the same period of 2010. During fiscal year 2010, we experienced increased litigation costs primarily related to the settlement of litigation. During fiscal year 2011, we realized cost savings from our continuous improvement initiatives. In August 2011, we successfully settled litigation related to Hurricane Katrina damages for $12.4 million, including $1.1 million that was advanced to the Company in fiscal year 2007. Interest expense decreased $1.7 million to $22.7 million during fiscal year 2011 primarily due to the significant repurchases of our senior convertible notes in the open market that occurred through fiscal year 2010. The effective tax rate for fiscal year 2011 was 37.7 percent compared to 31.4 percent for fiscal year 2010. The increased rate in fiscal year 2011 is primarily due to a $2.9 million charge to income tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 as a result of the revaluation of our deferred tax asset due to a change in Puerto Rican tax legislation. This charge to tax expense was offset primarily by a reduction in the valuation allowance related to our capital loss carry forward, due in part to the performance of our trust portfolio during fiscal year 2011. In fiscal year 2010, the effective tax rate was positively impacted by a $1.8 million tax benefit caused by the reduced valuation allowance on the capital loss carry forward and a $1.5 million tax benefit attributable to the utilization of state net operating loss carryovers realized from our state tax planning strategies. During fiscal year 2011, we completed refinancing transactions that significantly extended our debt maturity profile at favorable terms. We issued $200.0 million of 6.50 percent senior notes due 2019 and repurchased $194.2 million of our $200.0 million outstanding 6.25 percent senior notes due 2013. We redeemed the remaining $5.8 million of our 6.25 percent senior notes outstanding in May 2011 at par. We also amended our $95.0 million revolving credit facility, which was undrawn and scheduled to mature in June 2012, to increase its size to $150.0 million and extend its maturity to April 2016. As a result of these transactions, we recorded a charge for the early extinguishment of debt of $1.9 million during fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2010, we purchased $35.9 million aggregate principal amount of our senior convertible notes in the open market at $4.5 million less than the face value of the notes. In connection with the purchases, we recorded a net loss on early extinguishment of debt of $1.0 million for fiscal year 2010. During fiscal year 2011, we repurchased 4.5 million shares of our Class A common stock for $28.7 million under our stock repurchase program. Preneed Sales into the Backlog Net preneed funeral sales increased 1.8 percent during the year ended October 31, 2011 compared to the corresponding period in 2010. 46 Table of Contents The revenues from our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and service sales are deferred into our backlog and are not included in our previously noted operating results. We had $148.1 million in net preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and service sales (including $78.9 million related to third party insurance funded preneed funeral contracts) during the year ended October 31, 2011 to be recognized in the future as these prepaid products and services are delivered, compared to net sales of $144.4 million (including $77.3 million related to third party insurance funded preneed funeral contracts) for the corresponding period in 2010. Insurance funded preneed funeral contracts which will be funded by life insurance or annuity contracts issued by third party insurers are not reflected in the consolidated balance sheets. Liquidity and Capital Resources General We generate cash in our operations primarily from at need sales, preneed sales that turn at need, funds we are able to withdraw from our trusts and escrow accounts when preneed sales turn at need, monies collected on preneed sales that are not required to be placed in trust and items such as cemetery perpetual care trust earnings and finance charges. Over the last five years, we have generated more than $60 million annually in cash flow from operations. We have historically satisfied our working capital requirements with cash flows from operations. We believe that our current level of cash on hand, projected cash flows from operations and available capacity under the $150 million senior secured revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. As of October 31, 2012, we had no amounts drawn on the revolving credit facility, which matures in 2016, and our availability under the facility, after giving consideration to $0.8 million outstanding letters of credit and the $23.5 million Florida bond, was $125.7 million. See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for information about the Florida bond. We also have outstanding $131.5 million principal amount in senior convertible notes as of October 31, 2012, of which $86.4 million is scheduled to mature in 2014 and $45.1 million is scheduled to mature in 2016. We have outstanding $200.0 million principal amount in senior notes set to mature in 2019. See the table below under Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments for further information on our long term debt obligations. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, we increased our quarterly cash dividend on our Class A and B common stock from three and one half cents per share to four cents per share resulting in a 14 percent increase in our annual dividend rate to $0.16 per share. Dividends amounted to $13.3 million for the year ended October 31, 2012 compared to $11.8 million during fiscal year 2011. The declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by the Board of Directors after its review of our financial performance. In June 2011 and September 2011, we increased our stock repurchase program by $25.0 million resulting in a $125.0 million program. Under the program, we purchased 4.0 million shares of our Class A common stock for approximately $27.4 million during the year ended October 31, 2012. In November 2012, we purchased an additional 0.2 million shares of our Class A common stock for approximately $1.1 million and as of November 30, 2012, had $15.3 million remaining available under the program. Repurchases under the program are limited to our Class A common stock, and are made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions at such times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate, depending upon market conditions and other factors. We plan to continue to evaluate our options for deployment of cash flow as opportunities arise. We believe that the use of our cash to make acquisitions of death care businesses, pay dividends, repurchase debt and stock, invest in our strategic initiatives and construct funeral homes on cemeteries of unaffiliated third parties or on our own strategic locations are all attractive options. We are continuing to invest in further improving our business processes, and continue to look at ways to improve our organization and cost structure. In fiscal year 2010, we began a program of developing cremation gardens and other cremation projects in our cemeteries. We have successfully completed 31 cremation projects, and we currently have 4 projects either under construction or expected to begin construction and approximately 20 additional projects under feasibility review. For the year ended October 31, 2012, we spent $8.2 million on these projects, compared to $4.1 million in fiscal year 2011, and we plan to spend approximately $10 million to $15 million in fiscal year 2013. As of October 31, 2012, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 47 Table of Contents We believe that growing our organization through acquisitions remains a good business strategy, as it will enable us to enjoy the important synergies and economies of scale from our existing infrastructure. We regularly review acquisition and other strategic opportunities, which may require us to draw on our senior secured revolving credit facility or pursue additional debt or equity financing. During the year ended October 31, 2012, we invested $6.2 million of available cash for the acquisition of two funeral businesses, and during the year ended October 31, 2011, we invested $9.1 million of available cash for the acquisition of two funeral home/cemetery combinations. We received Internal Revenue Service approval in fiscal year 2010 on five requests for changes in tax accounting methods, which resulted in the deferral of approximately $84.0 million of taxable income. These changes increased the amounts available to offset taxable income beginning in 2010 to approximately $105.0 million. These changes primarily relate to our tax accounting methods for preneed cemetery services and preneed funeral merchandise. These changes permit us to defer the recognition of income for tax purposes (and payment of taxes) with respect to those amounts until the time the service is provided or the merchandise is actually delivered. We will eventually pay taxes with respect to the $84.0 million as the related preneed contracts are performed in the future. In fiscal year 2012, we received approval from the Internal Revenue Service for a change in tax accounting method resulting in the deferral of approximately $52.0 million in revenue until the service is performed or merchandise is delivered, thereby increasing the amount available to reduce taxable income. This increase resulted or will result in approximately $21.0 million of reduced tax payments. We will eventually pay taxes with respect to the $52.0 million when the related preneed contracts are performed in the future. As a result of the tax accounting changes that took place in fiscal years 2010 through 2012 described above, we had approximately $157.0 million available to offset taxable income as of 2010. We were able to utilize approximately $42.0 million in fiscal year 2012, $46.0 million in fiscal year 2011 and approximately $26.0 million in fiscal year 2010, which reduced federal income taxes paid by approximately $14.7 million, $16.1 million and $9.1 million, respectively. We are continuing to review all of our tax accounting methods to determine opportunities to further improve our current tax position. Several possible changes are being considered that could result in potential reductions in future tax payments. At this time, we cannot predict with certainty what, if any, reductions in future tax payments we will obtain. However, we currently do not expect that these potential reductions in future tax payments, if obtained, will be as substantial as those obtained in fiscal years 2009 through 2012, which resulted in a combination of refunds and reductions of federal income tax payments totaling in excess of $100 million. Based on the currently approved changes, we expect to have federal net operating losses available in fiscal year 2013 to offset a portion of federal income taxes. For fiscal years 2013 and 2014, we expect our federal cash tax payments to be approximately $5 million to $10 million above fiscal year 2012 amounts. Cash Flow Comparison of Fiscal Year 2012 to Fiscal Year 2011 Cash flow provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2012 was $76.5 million compared to $86.8 million for fiscal year 2011. The decline in cash flow is primarily due to $11.3 million of the Hurricane Katrina settlement received during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. Our investing activities resulted in a net cash outflow of $36.1 million for the year ended October 31, 2012, compared to a net cash outflow of $32.5 million for fiscal year 2011. The change is primarily due to a $12.8 million net change related to purchases and sales of certificates of deposits, marketable securities and restricted cash equivalents offset by declines in capital expenditures and acquisition spending. For the year ended October 31, 2012, capital expenditures amounted to $20.8 million, which included $15.1 million for maintenance capital expenditures, $2.2 million for the construction of new funeral homes, $1.7 million related to the implementation of new business systems and $1.8 million related to the purchase of land and a new building for an existing business. For the year ended October 31, 2011, capital expenditures were $27.0 million, which included $17.6 million for maintenance capital expenditures, $3.5 million for the construction of new funeral homes, $1.3 million related to the 48 Table of Contents implementation of new business systems and $4.6 million related to the purchase of a funeral home building that we previously leased. We also purchased two funeral businesses in fiscal year 2012 resulting in a net cash outflow of $6.2 million, compared to purchasing two funeral/cemetery combinations in fiscal year 2011 for $9.1 million. Our financing activities resulted in a net cash outflow of $37.9 million for the year ended October 31, 2012, compared to a net cash outflow of $44.7 million for fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2012, we repurchased $27.4 million of our common stock compared to $28.8 million in fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2011, we issued $200.0 million of 6.50 percent senior notes due 2019 and repurchased and redeemed $200.0 million of 6.25 percent senior notes due 2013. We also paid $5.9 million in debt refinancing costs during fiscal year 2011 related to the senior notes transactions and refinancing of the senior secured revolving credit facility. Dividends paid increased from $11.8 million in fiscal year 2011 to $13.3 million in fiscal year 2012. Comparison of Fiscal Year 2011 to Fiscal Year 2010 Cash flow provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2011 was $86.8 million compared to $63.4 million for fiscal year 2010. The increase in operating cash flow is primarily due to the receipt of $11.3 million of the Hurricane Katrina settlement during the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, we experienced a change in working capital during fiscal year 2011, primarily driven by the timing of trust withdrawals and deposits, partially offset by an increase in inventory and receivables. These increases are due in part to the improved cemetery property sales, which are typically financed. Our investing activities resulted in a net cash outflow of $32.5 million for the year ended October 31, 2011, compared to a net cash outflow of $24.6 million for the year ended October 31, 2010. The change is primarily due to a $13.1 million net change related to purchases and sales of certificates of deposits, marketable securities and restricted cash equivalents. In fiscal year 2011, we replaced a letter of credit by posting cash to satisfy collateral requirements with insurance carriers and invested the cash collateral in a money market fund. Both methods of posting collateral are available to us in the future at any time. We also purchased two funeral/cemetery combinations in fiscal year 2011 resulting in a net cash outflow of $9.1 million. For the year ended October 31, 2011, capital expenditures amounted to $27.0 million, which included $17.6 million for maintenance capital expenditures, $3.5 million for the construction of two new funeral homes, $1.3 million related to the implementation of new business systems and $4.6 million related to the purchase of a funeral home building that we previously leased. For the year ended October 31, 2010, capital expenditures were $16.5 million, which included $12.7 million for maintenance capital expenditures, $3.0 million for the construction of new funeral homes and $0.8 million related to the implementation of new business systems. The increase in maintenance capital expenditures is primarily due to several large building improvement projects undertaken in fiscal year 2011 as well as increased vehicle and equipment purchases as we assess lease versus purchase decisions for our fleet. Our financing activities resulted in a net cash outflow of $44.7 million for the year ended October 31, 2011, compared to a net cash outflow of $45.5 million for the year ended October 31, 2010. During fiscal year 2011, we repurchased $28.8 million of our common stock compared to $4.1 million in fiscal year 2010. During fiscal year 2010, we had $31.5 million in repayments of long term debt primarily due to purchases of our senior convertible notes. During fiscal year 2011, we issued $200.0 million of 6.50 percent senior notes due 2019 and repurchased and redeemed $200.0 million of 6.25 percent senior notes due 2013. We also paid $5.9 million in debt refinancing costs during fiscal year 2011 related to the senior notes transactions and refinancing of the senior secured revolving credit facility. Dividends paid increased from $11.2 million in fiscal year 2010 to $11.8 million in fiscal year 2011. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments We have contractual obligations requiring future cash payments under existing contractual arrangements. The following table details our known future cash payments (in millions) related to various contractual obligations as of October 31, 2012. 49 Table of Contents Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Long term debt obligations (1) $ 331.6 $ $ 86.4 $ 45.1 $ 200.1 Interest on long term debt (2) 102.5 17.2 31.8 27.5 26.0 Operating and capital lease agreements (3) 35.6 5.9 9.2 6.5 14.0 Non competition and other agreements (4) 1.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.1 Purchase obligations (5) 4.4 4.4 Total $ 475.6 $ 28.0 $ 127.9 $ 79.5 $ 240.2 (1) As of October 31, 2012, our outstanding long term debt obligations amounted to $331.6 million, consisting of $86.4 million of 3.125 percent senior convertible notes due 2014, $45.1 million of 3.375 percent senior convertible notes due 2016, $200.0 million of 6.50 percent senior notes due 2019 and $0.1 million of other debt. There were no amounts drawn on the senior secured revolving credit facility. (2) Includes contractual interest payments for our senior convertible notes, senior notes and third party debt. (3) Our noncancellable operating leases are primarily for land and buildings and expire over the next one to 10 years, except for eight leases that expire between 2032 and 2039. These amounts also include leases under our vehicle fleet leasing program. Our future minimum lease payments for all leases as of October 31, 2012 were $5.9 million, $5.0 million, $4.2 million, $3.5 million, $3.0 million and $14.0 million for the years ending October 31, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and later years, respectively. (4) This category includes payments pursuant to non competition agreements with prior owners and key employees of acquired businesses. (5) This category represents a construction contract for a funeral home currently under construction. This category also represents a purchase obligation related to an agreement we entered into to purchase the land and building of an existing business that we currently lease. The following table details our known potential or possible future cash payments related to the specified contingent obligations specified below (in millions) as of October 31, 2012. Expiration by Period Contingent Obligations Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Cemetery perpetual care trust funding obligations(1) $ 12.0 $ 12.0 $ $ $ Long term obligations related to uncertain tax positions(2) 1.5 1.5 $ 13.5 $ 12.0 $ $ $ 1.5 (1) In those states where we have withdrawn realized net capital gains in the past from our cemetery perpetual care trusts, regulators may seek replenishment of subsequent realized net capital losses either by requiring a cash deposit to the trust or by prohibiting or restricting withdrawals of future earnings until they restore the initial corpus. The estimated probable funding obligation in the cemetery perpetual care trusts in these states was $12.0 million as of October 31, 2012. As of October 31, 2012, we had net unrealized losses of $16.6 million in the trusts in these states that could be subject to a future funding obligation. Because some of these trusts currently have assets with a fair market value less than the aggregate amounts required to be contributed to the trust, any additional realized net capital losses in these trusts may result in a corresponding funding liability and increase in cemetery costs. In those states where realized net capital gains have not been withdrawn, we believe it is reasonably possible but not probable that additional funding obligations may exist with an estimated amount of approximately $2.0 million; no charge has been recorded for these amounts as of October 31, 2012. (2) As discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, we adopted the required accounting guidance related to uncertain tax positions on November 1, 2007. In accordance with this guidance, 50 Table of Contents as of October 31, 2012, we recorded $1.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties. Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing and completion of audits and possible outcomes, it is not possible to estimate the range of increase and decrease and the timing thereof of any potential cash payments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements as of October 31, 2012 consist of the following two items: (1) the $23.5 million bond we are required to maintain to guarantee our obligations relating to funds we withdrew in fiscal year 2001 from our preneed funeral trusts in Florida, which is discussed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8; and (2) the insurance funded preneed funeral contracts, which will be funded by life insurance or annuity contracts issued by third party insurers, which are not reflected in our consolidated balance sheets, and are discussed in Note 2(i) to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Effect of Recent Accounting Standards For additional information on changes in accounting principles and new accounting principles, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Inflation Inflation has not had a significant impact on our operations over the past three years, nor is it expected to have a significant impact in the foreseeable future. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The market risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in the prices of investments in our preneed trusts and perpetual care trusts and interest rates associated with our long term debt. Generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions are characterized as other than trading. Our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in equity markets or interest rates. Our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur, and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur. Actual gains and losses, fluctuations in equity markets, interest rates and the timing of transactions, may differ from those estimated. Trust Investments As of October 31, 2012 and 2011, our marketable equity securities subject to market risk consisted principally of issuer specific common stock and preferred stock investments held by our preneed trusts and our cemetery perpetual care trusts and had fair values of $391.0 million and $363.4 million, respectively, which were determined using final sale prices quoted on stock exchanges. Each 10 percent change in the average market prices of the equity securities held in our preneed trusts and our cemetery perpetual care trusts would result in a change of approximately $39.1 million and $36.3 million, respectively, in the fair value of such accounts. As of October 31, 2012 and 2011, our mutual funds subject to market risk consisted principally of investments held in our preneed trusts and in our cemetery perpetual care trusts and had fair values of $343.3 million and $301.1 million, respectively. Each 10 percent change in the average market prices of the mutual fund securities held in our preneed trusts and our cemetery perpetual care trusts would result in a change of approximately $34.3 million and $30.1 million, respectively, in the fair value of such accounts. As of October 31, 2012 and 2011, our fixed income securities subject to market risk consisted principally of investments in our preneed trusts and our cemetery perpetual care trusts and had aggregate quoted market values of $58.5 million and $64.5 million, respectively. Each 10 percent change in interest rates on these fixed income securities would result in changes of approximately $0.8 million and $1.0 million, respectively, in the fair values of such securities based on discounted expected future cash flows. If these securities are held to maturity, no change in fair value will be realized. 51 Table of Contents As of October 31, 2012 and 2011, our money market and other short term investments subject to market risk, including amounts held in preneed trusts, and in our cemetery perpetual care trusts, had carrying values approximating their fair values of $75.0 million and $77.3 million, respectively. A change in the average interest rate earned by our preneed trusts would not result in a change in our current pre tax earnings. As such, as of October 31, 2012 and 2011, only $28.4 million and $22.6 million, respectively, of these short term investments, which consists of amounts in the cemetery perpetual care trusts and other short term investments not held in trust, were subject to changes in interest rates. Each 10 percent change in average interest rates applicable to such investments, 10 basis points for fiscal years 2012 and 2011, would result in changes of less than $0.1 million for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 in our pre tax earnings. Our preneed trusts and our cemetery perpetual care trusts are further discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and in Notes 4, 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Our marketable equity securities are principally held by our preneed trusts and cemetery perpetual care trusts, and are managed by ITI. ITI operates pursuant to a formal investment policy approved by the Investment Committee of our Board of Directors as discussed in Operations included in Item 1. Long term Debt We have entered into various fixed and variable rate debt obligations, which are detailed in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. As of October 31, 2012, our long term fixed rate debt consisted of $200.0 million of our 6.50 percent senior notes due 2019, $86.4 million of our 3.125 percent senior convertible notes due 2014, $45.1 million of our 3.375 percent senior convertible notes due 2016 and $0.1 million of third party debt. Our variable rate debt obligations consist of our $150.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility for which there was nothing drawn. As of October 31, 2012 and 2011, the carrying values of our long term fixed rate debt, including accrued interest, were approximately $323.7 million and $319.6 million, respectively, compared to fair values of $351.1 million and $326.3 million, respectively. Fair values were determined using quoted market prices. Each approximate 10 percent change in the average interest rates applicable to determine the fair value of such debt, 40 basis points for fiscal year 2012 and 60 basis points for fiscal year 2011, would result in changes of approximately $5.8 million and $7.8 million, respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. We monitor our mix of fixed and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time may alter that mix by, for example, entering into interest rate swap agreements or refinancing balances outstanding among our variable rate senior secured revolving credit facility and fixed rate debt. 52 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
