<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: ADMINISTAFF INC \DE\
CIK: 0001000753
SIC: 7363
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20061231
FILE DATE: 20070212
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24. Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with AIG, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. Information Technology Administaff utilizes a variety of information technology capabilities to provide its human resource services to clients and worksite employees and for its own administrative and management information requirements. 11 Table of Contents Administaff Information Management System (AIMS) is our proprietary PEO information system and utilizes both purchased and internally developed software applications. This system manages transactions and information unique to the PEO industry and to Administaff, including: worksite employee enrollment; human resource management; benefits and defined contribution plan administration; payroll processing; client invoicing and collection; management information and reporting; and sales bid calculations. Central to the system is a transaction processing system that allows us to process a high volume of payroll, invoice, and bid transactions that meet the specific needs of our clients and prospects. Our retirement services operations are conducted utilizing an industry leading retirement plan administration application in a third party hosted environment. We utilize commercially available software for other business functions such as finance and accounting, contract and litigation management, sales force activity management and customer relationship management. During 2006, we completed a project to develop a new benefits administration system that allows for increased reporting flexibility to our clients and prospects. The system was developed internally and placed into production during the fourth quarter of 2006. The Employee Service Center is our proprietary web based PEO service delivery platform. With its integration into AIMS, the ESC is designed to provide automated, personalized PEO content and services to our clients and worksite employees. For a description of the functionality provided through the ESC, please read PEO Services Employee Service Center on page 6. Administaffs primary data center is located at our corporate headquarters in Kingwood, Texas (a suburb of Houston). Substantially all of our business applications, telecommunications equipment and network equipment are hosted in this data center. We maintain a disaster recovery data center in our Dallas service center. This data center is fully equipped with the hardware and software necessary to run all of our critical business applications and has sufficient capacity to handle all of our operations for short periods of time, if required. Periodically, we perform testing to ensure the disaster recovery capabilities remain effective and available. We have invested substantially in our network infrastructure to ensure appropriate connectivity exists between our service centers in Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles, our district sales offices and our corporate offices, and to provide appropriate Internet connectivity to conduct business through the Employee Service Center. The network infrastructure is provided through industry standard core network hardware and via high speed network services provided by multiple vendors. Industry Regulation Administaffs operations are affected by numerous federal and state laws relating to tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with our worksite employees, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these federal and state laws. Because many of these federal and state laws were enacted prior to the development of nontraditional employment relationships, such as PEOs, temporary employment and outsourcing arrangements, many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of nontraditional employers. Currently, 31 states have passed laws that recognize PEOs or require licensing, registration or certification requirements for PEOs, and several others are considering such regulation. 12 Table of Contents Certain federal and state statutes and regulations use the terms employee leasing or staff leasing to describe the arrangement among a PEO and its clients and worksite employees. The terms employee leasing, staff leasing and professional employer arrangements are generally synonymous in such contexts and describe the arrangements we enter with our clients and worksite employees. As an employer, we are subject to federal statutes and regulations governing the employer/employee relationship. Subject to the issues discussed below, we believe that our operations are in compliance, in all material respects, with all applicable federal statutes and regulations. Employee Benefit Plans We offer various employee benefits plans to eligible employees, including our worksite employees. These plans include: a 401(k) retirement plan; a cafeteria plan under Code Section 125; a group health plan which includes medical, dental, vision, prescription and worklife programs; a welfare benefits plan which includes life insurance and disability programs; a health care flexible spending plan; an educational assistance program; and an adoption assistance program. Generally, employee benefit plans are subject to provisions of both the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA. Employer Status. In order to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Code, the plans must be established and maintained by an employer for the exclusive benefit of its employees. Generally, an entity is an employer of individuals for federal employment tax purposes if an employment relationship exists between the entity and the individuals under the common law test of employment. In addition, the officers of a corporation are deemed to be employees of that corporation for federal employment tax purposes. The common law test of employment, as applied by the IRS, involves an examination of approximately 20 factors to ascertain whether an employment relationship exists between a worker and a purported employer. Generally, the test is applied to determine whether an individual is an independent contractor or an employee for federal employment tax purposes and not to determine whether each of two or more companies is a co employer. Substantial weight is typically given to the question of whether the purported employer has the right to direct and control the details of an individuals work. Among the factors that appear to have been considered more important by the IRS are: the employers degree of behavioral control (the extent of instructions, training and the nature of the work); the financial control or the economic aspects of the relationship; and the intended relationship of the parties (whether employee benefits are provided, whether any contracts exist, whether services are ongoing or for a project, whether there are any penalties for discharge/termination, and the frequency of the business activity). ERISA Requirements. Employee pension and welfare benefit plans are also governed by ERISA. ERISA defines employer as any person acting directly as an employer, or indirectly in the interest of an employer, in relation to an employee benefit plan. ERISA defines the term employee as any individual employed by an employer. The United States Supreme Court has held that the common law test of employment must be applied to determine whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor under ERISA. A definitive judicial interpretation of employer in the context of a PEO or employee leasing arrangement has not been established. 13 Table of Contents If Administaff were found not to be an employer with respect to worksite employees for ERISA purposes, its plans would not comply with ERISA. Further, as a result of such finding Administaff and its plans would not enjoy, with respect to worksite employees, the preemption of state laws provided by ERISA and could be subject to varying state laws and regulations, as well as to claims based upon state common laws. Even if such a finding were made, we believe we would not be materially adversely affected because we could continue to make available similar benefits at comparable costs. In addition to ERISA and the Code provisions discussed herein, issues related to the relationship between Administaff and its worksite employees may also arise under other federal laws, including other federal income tax laws. 401(k) Retirement Plan. The Companys 401(k) Retirement Plan is operated pursuant to guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service under Revenue Procedure 2002 21 and Revenue Procedure 2003 86, each of which provides guidance for the operation of defined contribution plans maintained by PEOs that benefit worksite employees. This guidance provides qualification standards for PEO plans which, if met, negate the inquiry of common law employer status for purposes of the exclusive benefit rule. Federal Employment Taxes As a co employer, Administaff assumes responsibility and liability for the payment of federal and state employment taxes with respect to wages and salaries paid to our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: withholding of income tax requirements governed by Code Section 3401, et seq.; obligations under FICA, governed by Code Section 3101, et seq.; and obligations under FUTA, governed by Code Section 3301, et seq. Under these Code sections, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Code Section 3401, which applies to federal income tax withholding requirements, contains an exception to the general common law test applied to determine whether an entity is an employer for purposes of federal income tax withholding. Section 3401(d)(1) states that if the person for whom services are rendered does not have control of the payment of wages, the employer for this purpose is the person having control of the payment of wages. The Treasury regulations issued under Section 3401(d)(1) state that a third party can be deemed to be the employer of workers under this section for income tax withholding purposes where the person for whom services are rendered does not have legal control of the payment of wages. While Section 3401(d) (1) has been examined by several courts, its ultimate scope has not been delineated. Moreover, the IRS has to date relied extensively on the common law test of employment in determining liability for failure to comply with federal income tax withholding requirements. Accordingly, while we believe that we can assume the withholding obligations for worksite employees, in the event we fail to meet these obligations, the client may be held ultimately liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not to our knowledge discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, there can be no assurance that a definitive adverse resolution of this issue would not do so in the future. These interpretive uncertainties may also impact our ability to report employment taxes on our own account rather than the accounts of our clients. State Unemployment Taxes We record our state unemployment (SUI) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax funds. Rate notices are typically provided by the states during the first quarter of each year; however, some notices are received later. Until we receive the final tax rate notices, 14 Table of Contents we estimate our expected SUI rate in those particular states. For additional discussion regarding our SUI tax rates in recent years, please read Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. State Regulation While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have adopted provisions for licensing, registration, certification or recognition of PEOs, and several others are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. The Company is in compliance with the requirements in all 31 states. Regardless of whether a state has licensing, registration or certification requirements for PEOs, we must comply with a number of other state and local regulations that could impact our operations. Corporate Office Employees We had approximately 1,700 corporate office and sales employees as of December 31, 2006. We believe our relations with our corporate office and sales employees are good. None of our corporate office and sales employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Intellectual Property Administaff currently has registered trademarks and certain copyrights. Although the Administaff mark is the most material trademark to our business, our trademarks as a whole are also of considerable importance to us. Additionally, our acquisition of certain assets from KnowledgePoint, a subsidiary of Recruitmax, in December 2005 included trademarks and other intellectual property. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Information on the Companys risk factors is included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We believe our current facilities are adequate for the purposes for which they are intended and they provide sufficient capacity to accommodate our expansion goals. We will continue to evaluate the need for additional facilities based on the rate of growth in worksite employees, the geographic distribution of the worksite employee base and our long term service delivery requirements. Corporate Headquarters Our corporate headquarters is located in Kingwood, Texas, in a 327,000 square foot office campus style facility. This 28 acre company owned office campus includes approximately nine acres of undeveloped land for future expansion. All development and support operations are located in the Kingwood facility, along with our record retention center and primary data processing center. Service Centers We currently have four service centers located in Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles. The Atlanta service center, which currently services approximately 27% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 40,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2014, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Dallas service center, which currently services approximately 23% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 40,000 square foot leased facility, which also serves as our backup data processing and disaster recovery center. This facility, which is under lease until 2008, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Houston service center, which currently services approximately 27% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 58,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2014, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Los Angeles service center, which currently services approximately 23% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 45,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2012, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. Sales Offices As of December 31, 2006, we had sales and service personnel in 31 facilities located in 22 sales markets throughout the United States. All of the facilities are leased facilities, and some of these facilities are shared by multiple sales offices and or client service personnel. As of December 31, 2006, we had 41 sales offices in these 22 markets. To take advantage of economic efficiencies, multiple sales offices may share a physical location. Each sales office is typically staffed by six to eight sales representatives, a district sales manager and an office administrator. In addition, we have placed certain client service personnel in a majority of our sales markets to provide high quality, localized service to our clients in those major markets. We expect to continue placing various client service personnel in sales markets as a critical mass of clients is attained in each market. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Other than as set forth below, we are not a party to any material pending legal proceedings other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business that we believe would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Class Action Litigation On June 13, 2003, a class action lawsuit was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas on behalf of purchasers of the Companys common stock alleging violations of the federal securities laws. After that date, six similar class actions were filed against the Company in that court. Those lawsuits also named as defendants certain of the Companys officers and directors. In May 2004, the lead plaintiff filed its Consolidated Complaint, which amended and consolidated the seven previously filed cases. In June 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint. On March 30, 2006, the court granted the Companys motion to dismiss and thereafter entered a final order of dismissal with prejudice. The lead plaintiff did not file a notice of appeal by the deadline to do so. Accordingly, this matter is now concluded. State Unemployment Taxes As a result of a 2001 corporate restructuring, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of the reserve account in May 2002 and also notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of our subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all of our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million. Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer, and the matter will proceed with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders, through solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the quarter ended December 31, 2006. 17 Table of Contents ITEM S K 401 (b). EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. The following table sets forth the names, ages (as of February 12, 2007) and positions of the Companys executive officers: Name Age Position Paul J. Sarvadi 50 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Richard G. Rawson 58 President A. Steve Arizpe 49 Executive Vice President, Client Services and Chief Operating Officer Jay E. Mincks 53 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing John H. Spurgin, II 60 Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary Douglas S. Sharp 45 Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Paul J. Sarvadi has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since August 2003. Mr. Sarvadi co founded Administaff in 1986 and served as Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from its inception in 1986 through April 1987, as Vice President from April 1987 through 1989 and as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1989 to August 2003. Prior to founding Administaff, Mr. Sarvadi started and operated several small businesses. Mr. Sarvadi has served as President of NAPEO and was a member of its Board of Directors for five years. He also served as President of the Texas Chapter of NAPEO for three of the first four years of its existence. Mr. Sarvadi was selected as the 2001 National Ernst Young Entrepreneur Of The Year for service industries. Richard G. Rawson has served as President since August 2003. He served as Executive Vice President, Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from February 1997 to August 2003. He joined Administaff in 1989 as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer. He previously served as a Senior Financial Officer and Controller for several companies in the manufacturing and seismic data processing industries. Mr. Rawson has served as President, First Vice President, Second Vice President and Treasurer of NAPEO as well as Chairman of the NAPEO Accounting Practices Committee. A. Steve Arizpe has served as Executive Vice President, Client Services and Chief Operating Officer since August 2003. He joined Administaff in 1989 and has served in a variety of roles, including Houston Sales Manager, Regional Sales Manager, Vice President of Sales and Executive Vice President, Client Services. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Arizpe served in sales and sales management roles for two large corporations. Jay E. Mincks has served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing since January 1999. Mr. Mincks served as Vice President, Sales and Marketing from February 1997 through January 1999. He joined Administaff in 1990 and has served in a variety of other roles, including Houston Sales Manager and Regional Sales Manager for the Western United States. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Mincks served in a variety of positions, including management positions, in the sales and sales training fields with various large companies. John H. Spurgin, II has served as Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary since August 2003. He joined Administaff in January 1997 as Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Spurgin was a partner with the Austin office of McGinnis, Lochridge Kilgore, L.L.P., where he served as Administaffs outside counsel for nine years. Douglas S. Sharp has served as Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since August 2003. He joined Administaff in January 2000 as Vice President, Finance and Controller. From July 1994 until he joined Administaff, Mr. Sharp served as Chief Financial Officer for Rimkus Consulting Group, Inc. Prior to that, he served as Controller for a small publicly held company; as Controller for a large software company; and as an Audit Manager for Ernst Young LLP. Mr. Sharp has served as a member of the Accounting Practices Committee of NAPEO since January 2002. 18 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF SECURITIES. Price Range of Common Stock Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ASF. As of January 31, 2007, there were 245 holders of record of the common stock. This number does not include stockholders for whom shares were held in nominee or street name. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite transactional tape. High Low 2006 First Quarter $ 54.90 $ 37.55 Second Quarter 58.99 33.20 Third Quarter 39.12 30.30 Fourth Quarter 43.54 32.70 2005 First Quarter $ 16.25 $ 11.65 Second Quarter 23.95 13.47 Third Quarter 39.99 22.56 Fourth Quarter 48.43 35.80 Dividend Policy During each quarter of 2006, the Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share of common stock. During 2006 and 2005, the Company paid dividends of $10.0 million and $7.4 million, respectively. The payment of dividends is made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information about our purchases of Administaff common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2006: Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Maximum Number of Total Number Publicly Shares that May Yet Be of Shares Average Price Paid Announced Purchased Under the Period Purchased (1) per Share Program (2) Program (2) 10/01/2006 10/31/2006 $ 8,006,534 493,466 11/01/2006 11/30/2006 9,215 42.66 8,015,749 484,251 12/01/2006 12/31/2006 8,015,749 484,251 Total 9,215 $ 42.66 8,015,749 484,251 19 Table of Contents (1) Our Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to an aggregate amount of 8,500,000 shares of Administaff common stock, of which 8,015,749 shares had been repurchased as of December 31, 2006. During the three months ended December 31, 2006, we purchased 9,215 shares of our common stock. (2) Unless terminated earlier by resolution of the Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program. Performance Graph The following graph compares our cumulative total stockholder return since December 31, 2001 with the Standard Poors Small Cap 600 Stock Index and a peer group index composed of other companies with similar business models (Peer Group.) The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 on December 31, 2001. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Administaff, Inc., The S P Smallcap 600 Index And A Peer Group * $100 invested on 13/31/01 in stock or index including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2007, Standard Poors, a division of The mcGraw Hill Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. www.researchdatagroup.com/SP.htm 12/01 12/02 12/03 12/04 12/05 12/06 Administaff, Inc. 100.00 21.89 63.41 46.01 155.26 159.31 S P Smallcap 600 100.00 85.37 118.48 145.32 156.48 180.14 Peer Group 100.00 71.09 80.77 85.31 92.29 99.34 20 Table of Contents This peer group is comprised of the following companies: Automatic Data Processing, Gevity HR, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. The total return for each member of this peer group has been weighted to each members stock market capitalization. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 22. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Income Statement Data: Revenues (1) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 $ 890,859 $ 848,416 Gross profit 282,729 235,756 197,694 197,105 165,790 Operating income 61,565 43,767 22,131 24,274 67 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 46,506 29,983 19,210 14,985 (2,921 ) Net loss from discontinued operations (2,121 ) (1,160 ) Net income (loss) 46,506 29,983 19,210 12,864 (4,081 ) Diluted net income (loss) per share from continuing operations $ 1.64 $ 1.12 $ 0.72 $ 0.55 $ (0.11 ) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 128,401 $ 93,235 $ 47,500 $ 56,032 $ 41,238 Total assets 561,515 495,439 355,388 348,071 315,164 Total debt 1,749 34,890 36,539 42,362 44,169 Total stockholders equity 228,445 182,429 126,529 122,634 116,349 Cash dividends per share 0.36 0.28 Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month during period 100,675 88,780 77,936 75,036 77,334 Revenues per worksite employee per month (2) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 $ 1,037 $ 989 $ 914 Gross profit per worksite employee per month $ 234 $ 221 $ 211 $ 219 $ 179 Operating income per worksite employee per month $ 51 $ 41 $ 24 $ 27 $ (1) Gross billings of $8.055 billion, $6.633 billion, $5.377 billion, $4.829 billion, and $4.857 billion, less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion, $5.463 billion, $4.407 billion, $3.938 billion and $4.009 billion, respectively. (2) Gross billings of $6,667, $6,226, $5,749, $5,363 and $5,234 per worksite employee per month, less payroll cost of $5,517, $5,128, $4,712, $4,373 and $4,320 per worksite employee per month, respectively. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. The statements contained in this annual report that are not historical facts are forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements in this annual report could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Item 7 under Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38 and the uncertainties set forth from time to time in our other public reports and filings and public statements. Overview We provide a comprehensive Personnel Management System that encompasses a broad range of services, including benefits and payroll administration, health and workers compensation insurance programs, personnel records management, employer liability management, employee recruiting and selection, employee performance management, and employee training and development services. Our long term strategy continues to be aggregating the best small businesses in the United States on the common platform of our unique human resource service offering, thereby leveraging our buying power to provide additional valuable services to clients. Our overall operating results can be measured in terms of revenues, payroll costs, gross profit or operating income per worksite employee per month. We often use the number of worksite employees paid as our unit of measurement in analyzing and discussing our results of operations. Our key objective for 2006 was to continue to accelerate the growth in the number of paid worksite employees while appropriately pricing our service offering. We ended 2006 averaging 104,325 paid worksite employees in the fourth quarter, which represents a 10.9% increase over the fourth quarter of 2005. Our average number of worksite employees paid for the full year increased 13.4% over 2005. These increases were driven by improvements in sales and the net change in existing clients. Our 2006 average gross profit per worksite employee per month of $234 reflected the effective execution of our pricing strategy, including a slight increase in the markup related to our HR services, while managing our direct costs to better than expected levels. Lower than expected direct costs, particularly benefits costs and workers compensation costs, were primarily a result of the favorable trends in claims experience, complemented by lower administrative fees negotiated with our insurance carriers. Benefits costs per participant increased 5.7% over 2005, while workers compensation costs as a percentage of non bonus payroll declined by 15.6%. Operating expenses increased by 15.2% in 2006 to $221.2 million on a 13.4% increase in the number of worksite employees paid. Operating expenses increased due primarily to investments in sales and service personnel for the current and future growth of our business. On a per worksite employee per month basis, operating expenses increased from $180 in 2005 to $183 in 2006. Our net income increased 55.1% to $46.5 million in 2006 over 2005. We ended 2006 with working capital of $128.4 million, which is a $35.2 million increase from the end of 2005. Revenues We account for our revenues in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 99 19, Reporting Revenues Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent. Our gross billings to clients include the payroll cost of each worksite employee at the client location and a markup computed as a percentage of each worksite employees payroll cost. We invoice the gross billings concurrently with each periodic payroll of our worksite employees. Revenues, which exclude the payroll cost component of gross billings, and therefore, consist solely of the markup, are recognized ratably over the payroll period as worksite employees perform their service at the client worksite. 22 Table of Contents This markup includes pricing components associated with our estimates of payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs, plus a separate component related to our HR services. We include revenues that have been recognized but not invoiced in unbilled accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our revenues are primarily dependent on the number of clients enrolled, the resulting number of worksite employees paid each period and the number of worksite employees enrolled in our benefit plans. Because our markup is computed as a percentage of payroll cost, revenues are also affected by the payroll cost of worksite employees, which may fluctuate based on the composition of the worksite employee base, inflationary effects on wage levels and differences in the local economies of our markets. Direct Costs The primary direct costs associated with our revenue generating activities are: employment related taxes (payroll taxes); costs of employee benefit plans; and workers compensation costs. Payroll taxes consist of the employers portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes under FICA, federal unemployment taxes and state unemployment taxes. Payroll taxes are generally paid as a percentage of payroll cost. The federal tax rates are defined by federal regulations. State unemployment tax rates are subject to claim histories and vary from state to state. Employee benefits costs are comprised primarily of health insurance costs (including dental and pharmacy costs), but also include costs of other employee benefits such as life insurance, vision care, disability insurance, education assistance, adoption assistance, a flexible spending account and a worklife program. Workers compensation costs include administrative and risk charges paid to the insurance carrier, and claims costs, which are driven primarily by the frequency and severity of claims. Gross Profit Our gross profit per worksite employee is primarily determined by our ability to accurately estimate and control direct costs and our ability to incorporate changes in these costs into the gross billings charged to clients, which are subject to contractual arrangements that are typically renewed annually. We use gross profit per worksite employee per month as our principal measurement of relative performance at the gross profit level. Operating Expenses Salaries, wages and payroll taxes Salaries, wages and payroll taxes are primarily a function of the number of corporate employees and their associated average pay and any additional incentive compensation. Our corporate employees include client services, sales and marketing, benefits, legal, finance, information technology and administrative support personnel. Stock based compensation Our stock based compensation primarily relates to the recognition of non cash compensation expense over the vesting period of restricted stock awards. In 2005, the non cash expenses associated with the acceleration of stock option vesting were also included. 23 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses primarily include: rent expenses related to our service centers and sales offices; outside professional service fees related to legal, consulting and accounting services; administrative costs, such as postage, printing and supplies; employee travel expenses; and repairs and maintenance costs associated with our facilities and technology infrastructure. Commissions Commission expense consists of amounts paid to sales personnel. Commissions for sales personnel are based on a percentage of revenue generated by such personnel. Advertising Advertising expense primarily consists of media advertising and other business promotions in our current and anticipated sales markets, including the Administaff Small Business Classic sponsorship. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense is primarily a function of our capital investments in corporate facilities, service centers, sales offices and technology infrastructure. Income Taxes Administaffs provision for income taxes typically differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, due primarily to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant items resulting in deferred income taxes include prepaid assets, accruals for workers compensation expenses and depreciation. Changes in these items are reflected in our financial statements through a deferred income tax provision. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Administaffs discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to health and workers compensation insurance claims experience, state unemployment and payroll taxes, client bad debts, income taxes, property and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, and contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following accounting policies are critical and or require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements: Benefits costs We provide group health insurance coverage to our worksite employees through a national network of carriers including UnitedHealthcare (United), Cigna Healthcare, PacifiCare, Kaiser Permanente, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Shield of California, Hawaii Medical Service Association and Tufts, all of which provide fully insured policies or service contracts. The policy with United, which was first obtained in January 2002, provides the majority of our health insurance coverage. As a result of certain contractual terms, we have accounted for this plan since its inception using a partially self funded insurance accounting model. Accordingly, we record the costs of the United Plan, including an estimate of the incurred claims, taxes and administrative fees (collectively the Plan Costs), as benefits expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The estimated incurred claims are based upon: (i) the level of claims processed during the quarter; (ii) recent claim development patterns under the plan, to estimate a completion rate; and (iii) the number of participants in the plan. Each reporting period, changes in 24 Table of Contents the estimated ultimate costs resulting from claim trends, plan design and migration, participant demographics and other factors are incorporated into the benefits costs. Additionally, since the plans inception in January 2002, under the terms of the contract, United establishes cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. If the Plan Costs for a reporting quarter are greater than the cash funded to United, a deficit in the plan would be incurred and we would accrue a liability for the excess costs on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. On the other hand, if the Plan Costs for the reporting quarter are less than the cash funded to United, a surplus in the plan would be incurred and we would record an asset for the excess premiums on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The terms of the arrangement require us to maintain an accumulated cash surplus in the plan of $11 million, which is reported as long term prepaid insurance. As of December 31, 2006, Plan Costs were less than the net cash funded to United by $15.3 million. As this amount is in excess of the agreed upon $11 million surplus maintenance level, the $4.3 million balance is included in prepaid insurance, a current asset, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We believe the use of recent claims activity is representative of incurred and paid trends during the reporting period. The estimated completion rate used to compute incurred but not reported claims involves a significant level of judgment. Accordingly, an increase (or decrease) in the completion rates used to estimate the incurred claims would result in a decrease (or increase) in benefits costs and net income would increase (or decrease) accordingly. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the completion rates on our estimate of total benefit costs of $547.4 million in 2006: Change in Change in Change in Benefits Costs Net Income Completion Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (2.5)% $ (7,943 ) $ 5,123 (1.0)% (3,177 ) 2,049 1.0% 3,177 (2,049 ) 2.5% 7,943 (5,123 ) State unemployment taxes We record our state unemployment (SUI) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received. In December 2001, as a result of a 2001 corporate reorganization, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of our reserve account in May 2002, and notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of Administaffs subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million (Settlement). Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The Settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the 25 Table of Contents State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer and the matter proceeded with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. Workers compensation costs Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. Because we bear the economic burden of the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence, such claims, which are the primary component of our workers compensation costs, are recorded in the period incurred. Workers compensation insurance includes ongoing healthcare and indemnity coverage whereby claims are paid over numerous years following the date of injury. Accordingly, the accrual of related incurred costs in each reporting period includes estimates, which take into account the ongoing development of claims and therefore requires a significant level of judgment. Our management estimates our workers compensation costs by applying an aggregate loss development rate to worksite employee payroll levels. We employ a third party actuary to estimate our loss development rate, which is primarily based upon the nature of worksite employees job responsibilities, the location of worksite employees, the historical frequency and severity of workers compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. Each reporting period, changes in the actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into the Companys workers compensation claims cost estimates. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, Administaff reduced accrued workers compensation costs by $6.4 million and $4.6 million, respectively, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges related to prior reporting periods. Workers compensation cost estimates are discounted to present value at a rate based upon the U.S. Treasury rates that correspond with the weighted average estimated claim payout period (the average discount rate utilized in 2006 and 2005 was 4.8% and 3.9%, respectively) and are accreted over the estimated claim payment period and included as a component of direct costs in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our claim trends could be greater than or less than our prior estimates, in which case we would revise our claims estimates and record an adjustment to workers compensation costs in the period such determination is made. If we were to experience any significant changes in actuarial assumptions, our loss development rates could increase (or decrease) which would result in an increase (or decrease) in workers compensation costs and a resulting decrease (or increase) in net income reported in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the loss development rate on our estimate of workers compensation costs totaling $55.7 million in 2006: Change in Workers Change in Change in Loss Compensation Costs Net Income Development Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (5)% $ (2,241 ) $ 1,446 (2.5)% (1,121 ) 723 2.5% 1,121 (723 ) 5% 2,241 (1,446 ) At the beginning of each policy period, the insurance carrier, AIG, establishes monthly funding requirements comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). The level 26 Table of Contents of claim funds is primarily based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and expected workers compensation loss rates, as determined by AIG. Monies funded into the program for incurred claims expected to be paid within one year are recorded as restricted cash, a short term asset, while the remainder of claim funds are included in deposits, a long term asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid within one year are recorded as accrued workers compensation costs and included in short term liabilities, while our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid beyond one year are included in long term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2006, we had restricted cash of $37.4 million and deposits of $46.4 million. We have estimated and accrued $77.4 million in incurred workers compensation claim costs, as of December 31, 2006. Contingent liabilities We accrue and disclose contingent liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. SFAS No. 5 requires accrual of contingent liabilities that are considered probable to occur and that can be reasonably estimated. For contingent liabilities that are considered reasonably possible to occur, financial statement disclosure is required, including the range of possible loss if it can be reasonably determined. We have disclosed in our audited financial statements several issues that we believe are reasonably possible to occur, although we cannot determine the range of possible loss in all cases. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As these issues develop, we will continue to evaluate the probability of future loss and the potential range of such losses. If such evaluation were to determine that a loss was probable and the loss could be reasonably estimated, we would be required to accrue our estimated loss, which would reduce net income in the period that such determination was made. Deferred taxes We have recorded a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, our ability to realize our deferred tax assets could change from our current estimates. If we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to reduce the valuation allowance would increase net income in the period that such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to increase the valuation allowance would reduce net income in the period such determination is made. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to pay their comprehensive service fees. We believe that the success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to collect these comprehensive service fees for several reasons, including: the fact that we are at risk for the payment of our direct costs and worksite employee payroll costs regardless of whether our clients pay their comprehensive service fees; the large volume and dollar amount of transactions we process; and the periodic and recurring nature of payroll, upon which the comprehensive service fees are based. To mitigate this risk, we have established very tight credit policies. We generally require our clients to pay their comprehensive service fees no later than one day prior to the applicable payroll date. In addition, we maintain the right to terminate the Client Service Agreement and associated worksite employees or to require prepayment, letters of credit or other collateral if a clients financial position deteriorates or if the client does not pay the comprehensive service fee. As a result of these efforts, losses related to customer nonpayment have historically been low as a percentage of revenues. However, if our clients financial condition were to deteriorate rapidly, resulting in nonpayment, our accounts receivable balances could grow and we could be required to provide for additional allowances, which would decrease net income in the period that such determination was made. 27 Table of Contents Property and equipment Our property and equipment relate primarily to our facilities and related improvements, furniture and fixtures, computer hardware and software and capitalized software development costs. These costs are depreciated or amortized over the estimated useful lives of the assets. If we determine that the useful lives of these assets will be shorter than we currently estimate, our depreciation and amortization expense could be accelerated, which would decrease net income in the periods of such a determination. In addition, we periodically evaluate these costs for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. If events or circumstances were to indicate that any of our long lived assets might be impaired, we would analyze the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the applicable asset. In addition, we would record an impairment loss, which would reduce net income, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeded the fair value of the asset. Fair value is generally determined using an estimate of discounted future net cash flows from operating activities or upon disposal of the asset. Goodwill and other intangibles The December 2005 acquisition of HRTools.com and associated software applications included certain identifiable intangible assets and goodwill implied in the purchase price. The goodwill and intangible assets are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Our purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, five to ten years. New Accounting Pronouncements In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 requires that a position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return be recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e. a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, the cumulative effect of applying the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 48, if any, shall be reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of FIN 48 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, FASB Statement 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157) was issued. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by providing a standard definition of fair value as it applies to assets and liabilities. SFAS 157, which does not require any new fair value measurements, clarifies the application of other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $8.055 billion and $6.633 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion and $5.463 billion, respectively) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % Gross profit 282,729 235,756 19.9 % Operating expenses 221,164 191,989 15.2 % Operating income 61,565 43,767 40.7 % Other income (expense) 10,517 3,980 164.2 % Net income 46,506 29,983 55.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.64 1.12 46.4 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 100,675 88,780 13.4 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 4.7 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 234 221 5.9 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 183 180 1.7 % Operating income per worksite employee per month 51 41 24.4 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 38 28 35.7 % (1) Gross billings of $6,667 and $6,226 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,517 and $5,128 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 18.8% over 2005 due to a 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 4.7%, or $52, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 4.7% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. By region, our revenue growth over 2005 and revenue distribution for years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 243,224 $ 177,466 37.1 % 17.5 % 15.1 % Southeast 129,803 101,785 27.5 % 9.3 % 8.7 % Central 193,787 153,477 26.3 % 14.0 % 13.1 % Southwest 503,498 458,196 9.9 % 36.3 % 39.2 % West 308,984 271,018 14.0 % 22.2 % 23.2 % Other revenues 10,168 7,670 32.6 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 29 Table of Contents Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. During 2006, the 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month resulted from improvements in new client sales and the net change in existing clients, while client retention, measured as a percentage of the worksite employee base, declined as compared to 2005. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.9% to $282.7 million compared to 2005. The average gross profit per worksite employee increased 5.9% to $234 per month in 2006 versus $221 in 2005. Our pricing objectives attempt to maintain or improve the gross profit per worksite employee by increasing revenue per worksite employee to match or exceed changes in primary direct costs and operating expenses. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 4.7%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 4.4% to $916 per worksite employee per month in 2006 versus $877 in 2005. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $18 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005, due to a 7.6% increase in average payroll cost per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost decreased from 7.46% in 2005 to 7.27% in 2006. The 2006 amount includes a $3.3 million payroll tax reduction, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to the California state unemployment tax matter. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of group health insurance and related employee benefits increased $26 per worksite employee per month to $453 compared to 2005. This increase is due to a 5.7% increase in the cost per covered employee and a slight increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.7% in 2005 versus 72.4% in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $5 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 0.92% in 2006 from 1.09% in 2005, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. During 2006, the Company recorded reductions in workers compensation costs of $6.4 million, or 0.11% of non bonus payroll costs, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges, compared to $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 119,963 $ 99,562 20.5 % $ 99 $ 93 6.5 % Stock based compensation 3,411 2,079 64.1 % 3 2 50.0 % General and administrative expenses 57,409 52,960 8.4 % 48 50 (4.0 )% Commissions 10,968 10,121 8.4 % 9 10 (10.0 )% Advertising 13,975 12,100 15.5 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,438 15,167 1.8 % 13 14 (7.1 )% Total operating expenses $ 221,164 $ 191,989 15.2 % $ 183 $ 180 1.7 % Operating expenses increased 15.2% to $221.2 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month increased 1.7% to $183 in 2006 versus $180 in 2005. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 20.5%, or $6 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. During 2006, the number of corporate employees increased 16.6%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 4.2% as compared to 2005. Stock based compensation increased 64.1%, or $1 per worksite employee per month. Stock based compensation expense primarily represents the vesting of restricted stock awards. The 2006 expense also includes $280,000 related to the annual stock grant made to the independent members of the Board of Directors. The 2005 amount includes $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 8.4% due primarily to higher expenses associated with the increase in corporate and worksite employee headcount, such as travel, postage and rent. General and administrative expenses decreased $2 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Commissions expense increased 8.4%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Advertising costs increased 15.5%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2006 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2005. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 1.8%, but declined $1 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2005. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) increased to $10.5 million in 2006 compared to $4.0 million in 2005. Interest income increased by $4.8 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program, and higher interest rates in 2006. Interest expense decreased $1.2 million as compared to 2005, due to the repayment of the $32.3 million outstanding variable rate mortgage on our corporate headquarters in May 2006. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2006 we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $25.6 million on pre tax income of $72.1 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses, offset by tax exempt interest income. Our effective income tax rate was 35.5% in the 2006 period compared to 37.2% in the 2005 period. Net Income Net income for 2006 was $46.5 million, or $1.64 per diluted share, compared to $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share in 2005. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 35.7% to $38 in 2006 versus $28 in 2005. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $6.633 billion and $5.377 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $5.463 billion and $4.407 billion, respectively) $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % Gross profit 235,756 197,694 19.3 % Operating expenses 191,989 175,563 9.4 % Operating income 43,767 22,131 97.8 % Other income (expense) 3,980 8,605 (53.7 )% Net income 29,983 19,210 56.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.12 0.72 55.6 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 88,780 77,936 13.9 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,098 $ 1,037 5.9 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 221 211 4.7 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 180 188 (4.3 )% Operating income per worksite employee per month 41 24 70.8 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 28 21 33.3 % (1) Gross billings of $6,226 and $5,749 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,128 and $4,712 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 20.6% over 2004 due to a 13.9% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 5.9%, or $61, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 5.9% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. The 13.9% increase in the average 32 Table of Contents number of worksite employees paid per month during 2005 resulted from increases in all three sources of paid worksite employees. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys revenues by region for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 177,466 $ 134,124 32.3 % 15.1 % 13.8 % Southeast 101,785 90,657 12.3 % 8.7 % 9.4 % Central 153,477 137,184 11.9 % 13.1 % 14.1 % Southwest 458,196 378,901 20.9 % 39.2 % 39.1 % West 271,018 222,209 22.0 % 23.2 % 22.9 % Other revenues 7,670 6,452 18.9 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.3% to $235.8 million compared to 2004. Gross profit per worksite employee increased 4.7% to $221 per month in 2005 versus $211 in 2004. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 5.9%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 6.2% to $877 per worksite employee per month in 2005 versus $826 in 2004. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $34 per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost were 7.46% in 2005. This compares to 7.41% in 2004 which included a $2.3 million payroll tax credit, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to a state unemployment matter with the state of California. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of health insurance and related employee benefits increased $23 per worksite employee per month to $427 compared to 2004. This increase is due to a 3.9% increase in the cost per covered employee and an increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.4% in 2005 versus 71.1% in 2004. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $7 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 1.09% in 2005 from 1.35% in 2004, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. These trends resulted in reductions in estimated accrued workers compensation costs related to prior reporting periods of $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs, in the 2005 period. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 99,562 $ 88,298 12.8 % $ 93 $ 94 (1.1 )% Stock based compensation 2,079 2 General and administrative expenses 52,960 49,283 7.5 % 50 53 (5.7 )% Commissions 10,121 10,447 (3.1 )% 10 11 (9.1 )% Advertising 12,100 10,021 20.7 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,167 17,514 (13.4 )% 14 19 (26.3 )% Total operating expenses $ 191,989 $ 175,563 9.4 % $ 180 $ 188 (4.3 )% Operating expenses increased 9.4% to $192.0 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month decreased 4.3% to $180 in 2005 versus $188 in 2004. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 12.8%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. During 2005, incentive compensation increased $6.1 million over 2004 due to the improved operating results. In addition, the number of corporate employees increased 3.1%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 3.4%. Stock based compensation expense of $2.1 million or $2 per worksite employee per month was a result of: (i) $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting during the first quarter of 2005; and (ii) $1,289,000 related to the amortization of deferred compensation expense associated with the February 2005 restricted stock grant. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 7.5%, but declined $3 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. The increase in total dollars is primarily due to increases in: (i) repairs and maintenance; and (ii) professional fees such as consulting fees, accounting fees and recruiting costs. Commissions expense decreased 3.1% or $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004, as an increase in commissions paid to sales personnel was more than offset by cost savings resulting from the termination of our marketing and commission arrangement with American Express in December 2004. Advertising costs increased 20.7%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2005 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2004. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 13.4% and $5 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2004 as the effect of certain fixed assets becoming fully amortized more than offset the incremental depreciation and amortization expense related to the 2005 capital additions. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased to $4.0 million in 2005 compared to $8.6 million in 2004, primarily due to the $8.25 million settlement of our dispute with Aetna during the 2004 period. Interest income increased by $4.1 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program and higher interest rates in 2005. 34 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2005, we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $17.8 million on pre tax income of $47.7 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Our effective income tax rate was 37.2% in the 2005 period compared to 37.5% in the 2004 period. Net Income Net income for 2005 was $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, compared to $19.2 million, or $0.72 per diluted share in 2004. Net income for 2004 included $5.2 million or $0.19 per share of proceeds related to the settlement of our dispute with Aetna. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 33.3% to $28 in 2005 versus $21 in 2004. Non GAAP Financial Measures Non bonus payroll cost is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of bonus payrolls paid to our worksite employees. Bonus payroll cost varies from period to period, but has no direct impact to our ultimate workers compensation costs under the current program. As a result, our management refers to non bonus payroll cost in analyzing, reporting and forecasting our workers compensation costs. Non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and may be different from non GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We include these non GAAP financial measures because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency related to the costs incurred under our current workers compensation program. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non GAAP financial measures used to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the table below. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Change (in thousands, except per worksite employee) GAAP to non GAAP reconciliation: Payroll cost (GAAP) $ 6,665,532 $ 5,463,474 22.0 % Less: bonus payroll cost 640,552 508,170 26.1 % Non Bonus payroll cost $ 6,024,980 $ 4,955,304 21.6 % Payroll cost per worksite employee (GAAP) $ 5,517 $ 5,128 7.6 % Less: Bonus payroll cost per worksite employee 530 477 11.1 % Non bonus payroll cost per worksite employee $ 4,987 $ 4,651 7.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources We periodically evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our expansion plans, debt service requirements and other operating cash needs. To meet short and long term liquidity requirements, including payment of direct and operating expenses and repaying debt, we rely primarily on cash from operations. However, we have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to raise additional capital or take other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. We had $234.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2006, of which approximately $105.3 million was payable in early January 2007 for withheld federal and state income taxes, employment taxes and other payroll deductions. At December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $128.4 million compared to $93.2 million at December 31, 2005. We currently believe that our cash on hand, marketable securities and cash flows 35 Table of Contents from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements for 2007. We will rely on these same sources, as well as public and private debt or equity financing, to meet our longer term liquidity and capital needs. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities in 2006 of $88.5 million reflected a decrease of $23.2 million from 2005. Our primary source of cash from operations is the comprehensive service fee and payroll funding we collect from our clients. The level of cash and cash equivalents, and thus our reported cash flows from operating activities are significantly impacted by various external and internal factors, which are reflected in part by the changes in our balance sheet accounts. These include the following: Timing of customer payments / payrolls We typically collect our comprehensive service fee, along with the clients payroll funding, from clients at least one day prior to the payment of worksite employee payrolls and associated payroll taxes. Therefore, the last business day of a reporting period has a substantial impact on our reporting of operating cash flows. For example, many worksite employees are paid on Fridays; therefore, operating cash flows decline in the reporting periods that end on a Friday, such as December 2006, when client prepayments were $9.1 million and accrued worksite employee payroll was $94.8 million. However, for those reporting periods that end on a Thursday, our cash flows are higher due to the collection of the comprehensive service fee and clients payroll funding prior to processing the large number worksite employees payrolls one day subsequent to the period end. Classification of tax benefit from stock based compensation In 2006, we adopted Statement 123(R), which requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation cost. In addition, Statement 123(R) requires the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation to be reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to 2006, we reported the tax benefit as a component of operating cash flows, which was $12.8 million in 2005. Operating results Our net income has a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Our net income increased to $46.5 million in 2006 from $30.0 million in 2005. Please read Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 on page 29. Medical plan funding Our healthcare contract with United establishes participant cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. Therefore, changes in the participation level of the United Plan have a direct impact on our operating cash flows. In addition, changes to the funding rates, which are solely determined by United based primarily upon recent claim history and anticipated cost trends, also have a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Since inception of the United Plan in January 2002, cash funded to United has exceeded Plan Costs, resulting in a $15.3 million surplus, $4.3 million of which is reflected as a current asset, and $11.0 million of which is reflected as a long term asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006. Additionally, the $17.5 million in long term deposits was returned to Administaff during 2005. Workers compensation plan funding Under our arrangement with AIG, we make monthly payments to AIG comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). These pre determined amounts are stipulated in our agreement with AIG, and are based primarily on anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates during the policy year. Changes in payroll levels from that which was anticipated in the arrangement with AIG can result in changes in the amount of the cash payments to AIG, which will impact our reporting of operating cash flows. Our claim funds paid to AIG, based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates, were $47.4 million, less claims paid of $20.7 million in 2006, and $50.0 million, less claims paid of $17.2 million for the 2005 period. This compares to our estimate of workers compensation loss costs of $37.8 million and $36.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, AIG returned $29.7 million and $22.8 million, respectively, to Administaff for the return of excess funding related to prior policy periods. 36 Table of Contents Cash Flows From Investing Activities Our cash flows used in investing activities of $40.4 million reflected a decrease of $25.1 million from 2005. During 2006, we invested $27.6 million in marketable securities and $12.9 million in capital expenditures, primarily computer hardware and software to enhance the performance and stability of our technology infrastructure. We expect approximately $15 million in capital expenditures in 2007. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $37.1 million during 2006, an increase of $46.5 million over 2005. In May 2006, we paid the remaining balance of $32.3 million on our variable rate mortgage prior to its maturity date of January 2008. Please read Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 22 for additional information. Additionally, we repurchased $24.2 million in treasury stock and paid $10.0 million in dividends, offset by the receipt of $16.8 million in stock option exercise proceeds and $12.7 million in income tax benefit from stock based compensation. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006 and the effect they are expected to have on our liquidity and capital resources (in thousands): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Contractual obligations: Capital lease obligations $ 1,749 $ 583 $ 1,166 $ $ Non cancelable operating leases 42,409 9,685 14,632 10,120 7,972 Purchase obligations (1) 14,512 6,933 6,709 380 490 Other long term liabilities Accrued workers compensation claim costs (2) 77,424 35,840 18,198 15,797 7,589 Total contractual cash obligations $ 136,094 $ 53,041 $ 40,705 $ 26,297 $ 16,051 (1) The table includes purchase obligations associated with non cancelable contracts individually greater than $100,000 and one year. (2) Accrued workers compensation claim costs include the short and long term amounts. For more information, please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. Seasonality, Inflation and Quarterly Fluctuations We believe the effects of inflation have not had a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll and Benefits Costs Under the CSA, we become a co employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for: payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Premiums Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2007, and automatically renews each year, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. Health insurance premiums are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. We employ extensive risk management procedures in an attempt to control our claims incidence and structure our benefits contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible. However, if we experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in claim activity, our health insurance costs could increase. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24. Increases in Workers Compensation Costs In 2003, facing continued capital constraints and a series of downgrades from various rating agencies, our former workers compensation insurance carrier for the two year period ending September 2003, Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company, a unit of Kemper Insurance Companies (Kemper), made the decision to substantially cease underwriting operations and voluntarily entered into run off. A run off is the professional management of an insurance companys discontinued, distressed or nonrenewed lines of insurance and associated liabilities outside of a judicial proceeding. In the event the run off process is not successful and Kemper is forced into bankruptcy or a similar proceeding, most states have established guaranty funds to pay remaining claims. However, the guarantee associations in some states, including Texas, have asserted that state law returns the liability for open claims under such policies to the insured, as we experienced when another former insurance carrier, Reliance National Indemnity Co., declared bankruptcy in 2001. In that case, the Texas state guaranty association asserted that it was entitled to full reimbursement from us for workers compensation benefits paid by the association. Although we settled that dispute within the limits of insurance coverage we had secured to cover potential claims returned to us related to the Reliance policies, if one or more states were to assert that liability for open claims with Kemper should be returned to us, we may be required to make a payment to the state covering estimated claims attributable to us. Any such payment would reduce net income, which may have a material adverse effect on net income in the reported period. The current workers compensation contract with AIG expires on September 30, 2007. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member 38 Table of Contents insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with AIG, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. In conjunction with entering into the AIG Program, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. Information Technology Administaff utilizes a variety of information technology capabilities to provide its human resource services to clients and worksite employees and for its own administrative and management information requirements. 11 Table of Contents Administaff Information Management System (AIMS) is our proprietary PEO information system and utilizes both purchased and internally developed software applications. This system manages transactions and information unique to the PEO industry and to Administaff, including: worksite employee enrollment; human resource management; benefits and defined contribution plan administration; payroll processing; client invoicing and collection; management information and reporting; and sales bid calculations. Central to the system is a transaction processing system that allows us to process a high volume of payroll, invoice, and bid transactions that meet the specific needs of our clients and prospects. Our retirement services operations are conducted utilizing an industry leading retirement plan administration application in a third party hosted environment. We utilize commercially available software for other business functions such as finance and accounting, contract and litigation management, sales force activity management and customer relationship management. During 2006, we completed a project to develop a new benefits administration system that allows for increased reporting flexibility to our clients and prospects. The system was developed internally and placed into production during the fourth quarter of 2006. The Employee Service Center is our proprietary web based PEO service delivery platform. With its integration into AIMS, the ESC is designed to provide automated, personalized PEO content and services to our clients and worksite employees. For a description of the functionality provided through the ESC, please read PEO Services Employee Service Center on page 6. Administaffs primary data center is located at our corporate headquarters in Kingwood, Texas (a suburb of Houston). Substantially all of our business applications, telecommunications equipment and network equipment are hosted in this data center. We maintain a disaster recovery data center in our Dallas service center. This data center is fully equipped with the hardware and software necessary to run all of our critical business applications and has sufficient capacity to handle all of our operations for short periods of time, if required. Periodically, we perform testing to ensure the disaster recovery capabilities remain effective and available. We have invested substantially in our network infrastructure to ensure appropriate connectivity exists between our service centers in Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles, our district sales offices and our corporate offices, and to provide appropriate Internet connectivity to conduct business through the Employee Service Center. The network infrastructure is provided through industry standard core network hardware and via high speed network services provided by multiple vendors. Industry Regulation Administaffs operations are affected by numerous federal and state laws relating to tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with our worksite employees, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these federal and state laws. Because many of these federal and state laws were enacted prior to the development of nontraditional employment relationships, such as PEOs, temporary employment and outsourcing arrangements, many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of nontraditional employers. Currently, 31 states have passed laws that recognize PEOs or require licensing, registration or certification requirements for PEOs, and several others are considering such regulation. 12 Table of Contents Certain federal and state statutes and regulations use the terms employee leasing or staff leasing to describe the arrangement among a PEO and its clients and worksite employees. The terms employee leasing, staff leasing and professional employer arrangements are generally synonymous in such contexts and describe the arrangements we enter with our clients and worksite employees. As an employer, we are subject to federal statutes and regulations governing the employer/employee relationship. Subject to the issues discussed below, we believe that our operations are in compliance, in all material respects, with all applicable federal statutes and regulations. Employee Benefit Plans We offer various employee benefits plans to eligible employees, including our worksite employees. These plans include: a 401(k) retirement plan; a cafeteria plan under Code Section 125; a group health plan which includes medical, dental, vision, prescription and worklife programs; a welfare benefits plan which includes life insurance and disability programs; a health care flexible spending plan; an educational assistance program; and an adoption assistance program. Generally, employee benefit plans are subject to provisions of both the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA. Employer Status. In order to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Code, the plans must be established and maintained by an employer for the exclusive benefit of its employees. Generally, an entity is an employer of individuals for federal employment tax purposes if an employment relationship exists between the entity and the individuals under the common law test of employment. In addition, the officers of a corporation are deemed to be employees of that corporation for federal employment tax purposes. The common law test of employment, as applied by the IRS, involves an examination of approximately 20 factors to ascertain whether an employment relationship exists between a worker and a purported employer. Generally, the test is applied to determine whether an individual is an independent contractor or an employee for federal employment tax purposes and not to determine whether each of two or more companies is a co employer. Substantial weight is typically given to the question of whether the purported employer has the right to direct and control the details of an individuals work. Among the factors that appear to have been considered more important by the IRS are: the employers degree of behavioral control (the extent of instructions, training and the nature of the work); the financial control or the economic aspects of the relationship; and the intended relationship of the parties (whether employee benefits are provided, whether any contracts exist, whether services are ongoing or for a project, whether there are any penalties for discharge/termination, and the frequency of the business activity). ERISA Requirements. Employee pension and welfare benefit plans are also governed by ERISA. ERISA defines employer as any person acting directly as an employer, or indirectly in the interest of an employer, in relation to an employee benefit plan. ERISA defines the term employee as any individual employed by an employer. The United States Supreme Court has held that the common law test of employment must be applied to determine whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor under ERISA. A definitive judicial interpretation of employer in the context of a PEO or employee leasing arrangement has not been established. 13 Table of Contents If Administaff were found not to be an employer with respect to worksite employees for ERISA purposes, its plans would not comply with ERISA. Further, as a result of such finding Administaff and its plans would not enjoy, with respect to worksite employees, the preemption of state laws provided by ERISA and could be subject to varying state laws and regulations, as well as to claims based upon state common laws. Even if such a finding were made, we believe we would not be materially adversely affected because we could continue to make available similar benefits at comparable costs. In addition to ERISA and the Code provisions discussed herein, issues related to the relationship between Administaff and its worksite employees may also arise under other federal laws, including other federal income tax laws. 401(k) Retirement Plan. The Companys 401(k) Retirement Plan is operated pursuant to guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service under Revenue Procedure 2002 21 and Revenue Procedure 2003 86, each of which provides guidance for the operation of defined contribution plans maintained by PEOs that benefit worksite employees. This guidance provides qualification standards for PEO plans which, if met, negate the inquiry of common law employer status for purposes of the exclusive benefit rule. Federal Employment Taxes As a co employer, Administaff assumes responsibility and liability for the payment of federal and state employment taxes with respect to wages and salaries paid to our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: withholding of income tax requirements governed by Code Section 3401, et seq.; obligations under FICA, governed by Code Section 3101, et seq.; and obligations under FUTA, governed by Code Section 3301, et seq. Under these Code sections, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Code Section 3401, which applies to federal income tax withholding requirements, contains an exception to the general common law test applied to determine whether an entity is an employer for purposes of federal income tax withholding. Section 3401(d)(1) states that if the person for whom services are rendered does not have control of the payment of wages, the employer for this purpose is the person having control of the payment of wages. The Treasury regulations issued under Section 3401(d)(1) state that a third party can be deemed to be the employer of workers under this section for income tax withholding purposes where the person for whom services are rendered does not have legal control of the payment of wages. While Section 3401(d) (1) has been examined by several courts, its ultimate scope has not been delineated. Moreover, the IRS has to date relied extensively on the common law test of employment in determining liability for failure to comply with federal income tax withholding requirements. Accordingly, while we believe that we can assume the withholding obligations for worksite employees, in the event we fail to meet these obligations, the client may be held ultimately liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not to our knowledge discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, there can be no assurance that a definitive adverse resolution of this issue would not do so in the future. These interpretive uncertainties may also impact our ability to report employment taxes on our own account rather than the accounts of our clients. State Unemployment Taxes We record our state unemployment (SUI) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax funds. Rate notices are typically provided by the states during the first quarter of each year; however, some notices are received later. Until we receive the final tax rate notices, 14 Table of Contents we estimate our expected SUI rate in those particular states. For additional discussion regarding our SUI tax rates in recent years, please read Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. State Regulation While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have adopted provisions for licensing, registration, certification or recognition of PEOs, and several others are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. The Company is in compliance with the requirements in all 31 states. Regardless of whether a state has licensing, registration or certification requirements for PEOs, we must comply with a number of other state and local regulations that could impact our operations. Corporate Office Employees We had approximately 1,700 corporate office and sales employees as of December 31, 2006. We believe our relations with our corporate office and sales employees are good. None of our corporate office and sales employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Intellectual Property Administaff currently has registered trademarks and certain copyrights. Although the Administaff mark is the most material trademark to our business, our trademarks as a whole are also of considerable importance to us. Additionally, our acquisition of certain assets from KnowledgePoint, a subsidiary of Recruitmax, in December 2005 included trademarks and other intellectual property. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Information on the Companys risk factors is included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We believe our current facilities are adequate for the purposes for which they are intended and they provide sufficient capacity to accommodate our expansion goals. We will continue to evaluate the need for additional facilities based on the rate of growth in worksite employees, the geographic distribution of the worksite employee base and our long term service delivery requirements. Corporate Headquarters Our corporate headquarters is located in Kingwood, Texas, in a 327,000 square foot office campus style facility. This 28 acre company owned office campus includes approximately nine acres of undeveloped land for future expansion. All development and support operations are located in the Kingwood facility, along with our record retention center and primary data processing center. Service Centers We currently have four service centers located in Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles. The Atlanta service center, which currently services approximately 27% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 40,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2014, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Dallas service center, which currently services approximately 23% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 40,000 square foot leased facility, which also serves as our backup data processing and disaster recovery center. This facility, which is under lease until 2008, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Houston service center, which currently services approximately 27% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 58,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2014, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Los Angeles service center, which currently services approximately 23% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 45,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2012, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. Sales Offices As of December 31, 2006, we had sales and service personnel in 31 facilities located in 22 sales markets throughout the United States. All of the facilities are leased facilities, and some of these facilities are shared by multiple sales offices and or client service personnel. As of December 31, 2006, we had 41 sales offices in these 22 markets. To take advantage of economic efficiencies, multiple sales offices may share a physical location. Each sales office is typically staffed by six to eight sales representatives, a district sales manager and an office administrator. In addition, we have placed certain client service personnel in a majority of our sales markets to provide high quality, localized service to our clients in those major markets. We expect to continue placing various client service personnel in sales markets as a critical mass of clients is attained in each market. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Other than as set forth below, we are not a party to any material pending legal proceedings other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business that we believe would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Class Action Litigation On June 13, 2003, a class action lawsuit was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas on behalf of purchasers of the Companys common stock alleging violations of the federal securities laws. After that date, six similar class actions were filed against the Company in that court. Those lawsuits also named as defendants certain of the Companys officers and directors. In May 2004, the lead plaintiff filed its Consolidated Complaint, which amended and consolidated the seven previously filed cases. In June 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint. On March 30, 2006, the court granted the Companys motion to dismiss and thereafter entered a final order of dismissal with prejudice. The lead plaintiff did not file a notice of appeal by the deadline to do so. Accordingly, this matter is now concluded. State Unemployment Taxes As a result of a 2001 corporate restructuring, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of the reserve account in May 2002 and also notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of our subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all of our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million. Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer, and the matter will proceed with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders, through solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the quarter ended December 31, 2006. 17 Table of Contents ITEM S K 401 (b). EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. The following table sets forth the names, ages (as of February 12, 2007) and positions of the Companys executive officers: Name Age Position Paul J. Sarvadi 50 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Richard G. Rawson 58 President A. Steve Arizpe 49 Executive Vice President, Client Services and Chief Operating Officer Jay E. Mincks 53 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing John H. Spurgin, II 60 Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary Douglas S. Sharp 45 Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Paul J. Sarvadi has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since August 2003. Mr. Sarvadi co founded Administaff in 1986 and served as Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from its inception in 1986 through April 1987, as Vice President from April 1987 through 1989 and as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1989 to August 2003. Prior to founding Administaff, Mr. Sarvadi started and operated several small businesses. Mr. Sarvadi has served as President of NAPEO and was a member of its Board of Directors for five years. He also served as President of the Texas Chapter of NAPEO for three of the first four years of its existence. Mr. Sarvadi was selected as the 2001 National Ernst Young Entrepreneur Of The Year for service industries. Richard G. Rawson has served as President since August 2003. He served as Executive Vice President, Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from February 1997 to August 2003. He joined Administaff in 1989 as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer. He previously served as a Senior Financial Officer and Controller for several companies in the manufacturing and seismic data processing industries. Mr. Rawson has served as President, First Vice President, Second Vice President and Treasurer of NAPEO as well as Chairman of the NAPEO Accounting Practices Committee. A. Steve Arizpe has served as Executive Vice President, Client Services and Chief Operating Officer since August 2003. He joined Administaff in 1989 and has served in a variety of roles, including Houston Sales Manager, Regional Sales Manager, Vice President of Sales and Executive Vice President, Client Services. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Arizpe served in sales and sales management roles for two large corporations. Jay E. Mincks has served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing since January 1999. Mr. Mincks served as Vice President, Sales and Marketing from February 1997 through January 1999. He joined Administaff in 1990 and has served in a variety of other roles, including Houston Sales Manager and Regional Sales Manager for the Western United States. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Mincks served in a variety of positions, including management positions, in the sales and sales training fields with various large companies. John H. Spurgin, II has served as Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary since August 2003. He joined Administaff in January 1997 as Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Spurgin was a partner with the Austin office of McGinnis, Lochridge Kilgore, L.L.P., where he served as Administaffs outside counsel for nine years. Douglas S. Sharp has served as Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since August 2003. He joined Administaff in January 2000 as Vice President, Finance and Controller. From July 1994 until he joined Administaff, Mr. Sharp served as Chief Financial Officer for Rimkus Consulting Group, Inc. Prior to that, he served as Controller for a small publicly held company; as Controller for a large software company; and as an Audit Manager for Ernst Young LLP. Mr. Sharp has served as a member of the Accounting Practices Committee of NAPEO since January 2002. 18 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF SECURITIES. Price Range of Common Stock Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ASF. As of January 31, 2007, there were 245 holders of record of the common stock. This number does not include stockholders for whom shares were held in nominee or street name. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite transactional tape. High Low 2006 First Quarter $ 54.90 $ 37.55 Second Quarter 58.99 33.20 Third Quarter 39.12 30.30 Fourth Quarter 43.54 32.70 2005 First Quarter $ 16.25 $ 11.65 Second Quarter 23.95 13.47 Third Quarter 39.99 22.56 Fourth Quarter 48.43 35.80 Dividend Policy During each quarter of 2006, the Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share of common stock. During 2006 and 2005, the Company paid dividends of $10.0 million and $7.4 million, respectively. The payment of dividends is made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information about our purchases of Administaff common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2006: Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Maximum Number of Total Number Publicly Shares that May Yet Be of Shares Average Price Paid Announced Purchased Under the Period Purchased (1) per Share Program (2) Program (2) 10/01/2006 10/31/2006 $ 8,006,534 493,466 11/01/2006 11/30/2006 9,215 42.66 8,015,749 484,251 12/01/2006 12/31/2006 8,015,749 484,251 Total 9,215 $ 42.66 8,015,749 484,251 19 Table of Contents (1) Our Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to an aggregate amount of 8,500,000 shares of Administaff common stock, of which 8,015,749 shares had been repurchased as of December 31, 2006. During the three months ended December 31, 2006, we purchased 9,215 shares of our common stock. (2) Unless terminated earlier by resolution of the Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program. Performance Graph The following graph compares our cumulative total stockholder return since December 31, 2001 with the Standard Poors Small Cap 600 Stock Index and a peer group index composed of other companies with similar business models (Peer Group.) The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 on December 31, 2001. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Administaff, Inc., The S P Smallcap 600 Index And A Peer Group * $100 invested on 13/31/01 in stock or index including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2007, Standard Poors, a division of The mcGraw Hill Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. www.researchdatagroup.com/SP.htm 12/01 12/02 12/03 12/04 12/05 12/06 Administaff, Inc. 100.00 21.89 63.41 46.01 155.26 159.31 S P Smallcap 600 100.00 85.37 118.48 145.32 156.48 180.14 Peer Group 100.00 71.09 80.77 85.31 92.29 99.34 20 Table of Contents This peer group is comprised of the following companies: Automatic Data Processing, Gevity HR, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. The total return for each member of this peer group has been weighted to each members stock market capitalization. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 22. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Income Statement Data: Revenues (1) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 $ 890,859 $ 848,416 Gross profit 282,729 235,756 197,694 197,105 165,790 Operating income 61,565 43,767 22,131 24,274 67 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 46,506 29,983 19,210 14,985 (2,921 ) Net loss from discontinued operations (2,121 ) (1,160 ) Net income (loss) 46,506 29,983 19,210 12,864 (4,081 ) Diluted net income (loss) per share from continuing operations $ 1.64 $ 1.12 $ 0.72 $ 0.55 $ (0.11 ) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 128,401 $ 93,235 $ 47,500 $ 56,032 $ 41,238 Total assets 561,515 495,439 355,388 348,071 315,164 Total debt 1,749 34,890 36,539 42,362 44,169 Total stockholders equity 228,445 182,429 126,529 122,634 116,349 Cash dividends per share 0.36 0.28 Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month during period 100,675 88,780 77,936 75,036 77,334 Revenues per worksite employee per month (2) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 $ 1,037 $ 989 $ 914 Gross profit per worksite employee per month $ 234 $ 221 $ 211 $ 219 $ 179 Operating income per worksite employee per month $ 51 $ 41 $ 24 $ 27 $ (1) Gross billings of $8.055 billion, $6.633 billion, $5.377 billion, $4.829 billion, and $4.857 billion, less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion, $5.463 billion, $4.407 billion, $3.938 billion and $4.009 billion, respectively. (2) Gross billings of $6,667, $6,226, $5,749, $5,363 and $5,234 per worksite employee per month, less payroll cost of $5,517, $5,128, $4,712, $4,373 and $4,320 per worksite employee per month, respectively. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. The statements contained in this annual report that are not historical facts are forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements in this annual report could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Item 7 under Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38 and the uncertainties set forth from time to time in our other public reports and filings and public statements. Overview We provide a comprehensive Personnel Management System that encompasses a broad range of services, including benefits and payroll administration, health and workers compensation insurance programs, personnel records management, employer liability management, employee recruiting and selection, employee performance management, and employee training and development services. Our long term strategy continues to be aggregating the best small businesses in the United States on the common platform of our unique human resource service offering, thereby leveraging our buying power to provide additional valuable services to clients. Our overall operating results can be measured in terms of revenues, payroll costs, gross profit or operating income per worksite employee per month. We often use the number of worksite employees paid as our unit of measurement in analyzing and discussing our results of operations. Our key objective for 2006 was to continue to accelerate the growth in the number of paid worksite employees while appropriately pricing our service offering. We ended 2006 averaging 104,325 paid worksite employees in the fourth quarter, which represents a 10.9% increase over the fourth quarter of 2005. Our average number of worksite employees paid for the full year increased 13.4% over 2005. These increases were driven by improvements in sales and the net change in existing clients. Our 2006 average gross profit per worksite employee per month of $234 reflected the effective execution of our pricing strategy, including a slight increase in the markup related to our HR services, while managing our direct costs to better than expected levels. Lower than expected direct costs, particularly benefits costs and workers compensation costs, were primarily a result of the favorable trends in claims experience, complemented by lower administrative fees negotiated with our insurance carriers. Benefits costs per participant increased 5.7% over 2005, while workers compensation costs as a percentage of non bonus payroll declined by 15.6%. Operating expenses increased by 15.2% in 2006 to $221.2 million on a 13.4% increase in the number of worksite employees paid. Operating expenses increased due primarily to investments in sales and service personnel for the current and future growth of our business. On a per worksite employee per month basis, operating expenses increased from $180 in 2005 to $183 in 2006. Our net income increased 55.1% to $46.5 million in 2006 over 2005. We ended 2006 with working capital of $128.4 million, which is a $35.2 million increase from the end of 2005. Revenues We account for our revenues in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 99 19, Reporting Revenues Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent. Our gross billings to clients include the payroll cost of each worksite employee at the client location and a markup computed as a percentage of each worksite employees payroll cost. We invoice the gross billings concurrently with each periodic payroll of our worksite employees. Revenues, which exclude the payroll cost component of gross billings, and therefore, consist solely of the markup, are recognized ratably over the payroll period as worksite employees perform their service at the client worksite. 22 Table of Contents This markup includes pricing components associated with our estimates of payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs, plus a separate component related to our HR services. We include revenues that have been recognized but not invoiced in unbilled accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our revenues are primarily dependent on the number of clients enrolled, the resulting number of worksite employees paid each period and the number of worksite employees enrolled in our benefit plans. Because our markup is computed as a percentage of payroll cost, revenues are also affected by the payroll cost of worksite employees, which may fluctuate based on the composition of the worksite employee base, inflationary effects on wage levels and differences in the local economies of our markets. Direct Costs The primary direct costs associated with our revenue generating activities are: employment related taxes (payroll taxes); costs of employee benefit plans; and workers compensation costs. Payroll taxes consist of the employers portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes under FICA, federal unemployment taxes and state unemployment taxes. Payroll taxes are generally paid as a percentage of payroll cost. The federal tax rates are defined by federal regulations. State unemployment tax rates are subject to claim histories and vary from state to state. Employee benefits costs are comprised primarily of health insurance costs (including dental and pharmacy costs), but also include costs of other employee benefits such as life insurance, vision care, disability insurance, education assistance, adoption assistance, a flexible spending account and a worklife program. Workers compensation costs include administrative and risk charges paid to the insurance carrier, and claims costs, which are driven primarily by the frequency and severity of claims. Gross Profit Our gross profit per worksite employee is primarily determined by our ability to accurately estimate and control direct costs and our ability to incorporate changes in these costs into the gross billings charged to clients, which are subject to contractual arrangements that are typically renewed annually. We use gross profit per worksite employee per month as our principal measurement of relative performance at the gross profit level. Operating Expenses Salaries, wages and payroll taxes Salaries, wages and payroll taxes are primarily a function of the number of corporate employees and their associated average pay and any additional incentive compensation. Our corporate employees include client services, sales and marketing, benefits, legal, finance, information technology and administrative support personnel. Stock based compensation Our stock based compensation primarily relates to the recognition of non cash compensation expense over the vesting period of restricted stock awards. In 2005, the non cash expenses associated with the acceleration of stock option vesting were also included. 23 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses primarily include: rent expenses related to our service centers and sales offices; outside professional service fees related to legal, consulting and accounting services; administrative costs, such as postage, printing and supplies; employee travel expenses; and repairs and maintenance costs associated with our facilities and technology infrastructure. Commissions Commission expense consists of amounts paid to sales personnel. Commissions for sales personnel are based on a percentage of revenue generated by such personnel. Advertising Advertising expense primarily consists of media advertising and other business promotions in our current and anticipated sales markets, including the Administaff Small Business Classic sponsorship. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense is primarily a function of our capital investments in corporate facilities, service centers, sales offices and technology infrastructure. Income Taxes Administaffs provision for income taxes typically differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, due primarily to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant items resulting in deferred income taxes include prepaid assets, accruals for workers compensation expenses and depreciation. Changes in these items are reflected in our financial statements through a deferred income tax provision. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Administaffs discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to health and workers compensation insurance claims experience, state unemployment and payroll taxes, client bad debts, income taxes, property and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, and contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following accounting policies are critical and or require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements: Benefits costs We provide group health insurance coverage to our worksite employees through a national network of carriers including UnitedHealthcare (United), Cigna Healthcare, PacifiCare, Kaiser Permanente, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Shield of California, Hawaii Medical Service Association and Tufts, all of which provide fully insured policies or service contracts. The policy with United, which was first obtained in January 2002, provides the majority of our health insurance coverage. As a result of certain contractual terms, we have accounted for this plan since its inception using a partially self funded insurance accounting model. Accordingly, we record the costs of the United Plan, including an estimate of the incurred claims, taxes and administrative fees (collectively the Plan Costs), as benefits expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The estimated incurred claims are based upon: (i) the level of claims processed during the quarter; (ii) recent claim development patterns under the plan, to estimate a completion rate; and (iii) the number of participants in the plan. Each reporting period, changes in 24 Table of Contents the estimated ultimate costs resulting from claim trends, plan design and migration, participant demographics and other factors are incorporated into the benefits costs. Additionally, since the plans inception in January 2002, under the terms of the contract, United establishes cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. If the Plan Costs for a reporting quarter are greater than the cash funded to United, a deficit in the plan would be incurred and we would accrue a liability for the excess costs on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. On the other hand, if the Plan Costs for the reporting quarter are less than the cash funded to United, a surplus in the plan would be incurred and we would record an asset for the excess premiums on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The terms of the arrangement require us to maintain an accumulated cash surplus in the plan of $11 million, which is reported as long term prepaid insurance. As of December 31, 2006, Plan Costs were less than the net cash funded to United by $15.3 million. As this amount is in excess of the agreed upon $11 million surplus maintenance level, the $4.3 million balance is included in prepaid insurance, a current asset, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We believe the use of recent claims activity is representative of incurred and paid trends during the reporting period. The estimated completion rate used to compute incurred but not reported claims involves a significant level of judgment. Accordingly, an increase (or decrease) in the completion rates used to estimate the incurred claims would result in a decrease (or increase) in benefits costs and net income would increase (or decrease) accordingly. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the completion rates on our estimate of total benefit costs of $547.4 million in 2006: Change in Change in Change in Benefits Costs Net Income Completion Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (2.5)% $ (7,943 ) $ 5,123 (1.0)% (3,177 ) 2,049 1.0% 3,177 (2,049 ) 2.5% 7,943 (5,123 ) State unemployment taxes We record our state unemployment (SUI) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received. In December 2001, as a result of a 2001 corporate reorganization, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of our reserve account in May 2002, and notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of Administaffs subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million (Settlement). Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The Settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the 25 Table of Contents State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer and the matter proceeded with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. Workers compensation costs Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. Because we bear the economic burden of the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence, such claims, which are the primary component of our workers compensation costs, are recorded in the period incurred. Workers compensation insurance includes ongoing healthcare and indemnity coverage whereby claims are paid over numerous years following the date of injury. Accordingly, the accrual of related incurred costs in each reporting period includes estimates, which take into account the ongoing development of claims and therefore requires a significant level of judgment. Our management estimates our workers compensation costs by applying an aggregate loss development rate to worksite employee payroll levels. We employ a third party actuary to estimate our loss development rate, which is primarily based upon the nature of worksite employees job responsibilities, the location of worksite employees, the historical frequency and severity of workers compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. Each reporting period, changes in the actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into the Companys workers compensation claims cost estimates. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, Administaff reduced accrued workers compensation costs by $6.4 million and $4.6 million, respectively, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges related to prior reporting periods. Workers compensation cost estimates are discounted to present value at a rate based upon the U.S. Treasury rates that correspond with the weighted average estimated claim payout period (the average discount rate utilized in 2006 and 2005 was 4.8% and 3.9%, respectively) and are accreted over the estimated claim payment period and included as a component of direct costs in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our claim trends could be greater than or less than our prior estimates, in which case we would revise our claims estimates and record an adjustment to workers compensation costs in the period such determination is made. If we were to experience any significant changes in actuarial assumptions, our loss development rates could increase (or decrease) which would result in an increase (or decrease) in workers compensation costs and a resulting decrease (or increase) in net income reported in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the loss development rate on our estimate of workers compensation costs totaling $55.7 million in 2006: Change in Workers Change in Change in Loss Compensation Costs Net Income Development Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (5)% $ (2,241 ) $ 1,446 (2.5)% (1,121 ) 723 2.5% 1,121 (723 ) 5% 2,241 (1,446 ) At the beginning of each policy period, the insurance carrier, AIG, establishes monthly funding requirements comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). The level 26 Table of Contents of claim funds is primarily based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and expected workers compensation loss rates, as determined by AIG. Monies funded into the program for incurred claims expected to be paid within one year are recorded as restricted cash, a short term asset, while the remainder of claim funds are included in deposits, a long term asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid within one year are recorded as accrued workers compensation costs and included in short term liabilities, while our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid beyond one year are included in long term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2006, we had restricted cash of $37.4 million and deposits of $46.4 million. We have estimated and accrued $77.4 million in incurred workers compensation claim costs, as of December 31, 2006. Contingent liabilities We accrue and disclose contingent liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. SFAS No. 5 requires accrual of contingent liabilities that are considered probable to occur and that can be reasonably estimated. For contingent liabilities that are considered reasonably possible to occur, financial statement disclosure is required, including the range of possible loss if it can be reasonably determined. We have disclosed in our audited financial statements several issues that we believe are reasonably possible to occur, although we cannot determine the range of possible loss in all cases. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As these issues develop, we will continue to evaluate the probability of future loss and the potential range of such losses. If such evaluation were to determine that a loss was probable and the loss could be reasonably estimated, we would be required to accrue our estimated loss, which would reduce net income in the period that such determination was made. Deferred taxes We have recorded a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, our ability to realize our deferred tax assets could change from our current estimates. If we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to reduce the valuation allowance would increase net income in the period that such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to increase the valuation allowance would reduce net income in the period such determination is made. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to pay their comprehensive service fees. We believe that the success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to collect these comprehensive service fees for several reasons, including: the fact that we are at risk for the payment of our direct costs and worksite employee payroll costs regardless of whether our clients pay their comprehensive service fees; the large volume and dollar amount of transactions we process; and the periodic and recurring nature of payroll, upon which the comprehensive service fees are based. To mitigate this risk, we have established very tight credit policies. We generally require our clients to pay their comprehensive service fees no later than one day prior to the applicable payroll date. In addition, we maintain the right to terminate the Client Service Agreement and associated worksite employees or to require prepayment, letters of credit or other collateral if a clients financial position deteriorates or if the client does not pay the comprehensive service fee. As a result of these efforts, losses related to customer nonpayment have historically been low as a percentage of revenues. However, if our clients financial condition were to deteriorate rapidly, resulting in nonpayment, our accounts receivable balances could grow and we could be required to provide for additional allowances, which would decrease net income in the period that such determination was made. 27 Table of Contents Property and equipment Our property and equipment relate primarily to our facilities and related improvements, furniture and fixtures, computer hardware and software and capitalized software development costs. These costs are depreciated or amortized over the estimated useful lives of the assets. If we determine that the useful lives of these assets will be shorter than we currently estimate, our depreciation and amortization expense could be accelerated, which would decrease net income in the periods of such a determination. In addition, we periodically evaluate these costs for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. If events or circumstances were to indicate that any of our long lived assets might be impaired, we would analyze the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the applicable asset. In addition, we would record an impairment loss, which would reduce net income, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeded the fair value of the asset. Fair value is generally determined using an estimate of discounted future net cash flows from operating activities or upon disposal of the asset. Goodwill and other intangibles The December 2005 acquisition of HRTools.com and associated software applications included certain identifiable intangible assets and goodwill implied in the purchase price. The goodwill and intangible assets are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Our purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, five to ten years. New Accounting Pronouncements In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 requires that a position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return be recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e. a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, the cumulative effect of applying the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 48, if any, shall be reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of FIN 48 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, FASB Statement 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157) was issued. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by providing a standard definition of fair value as it applies to assets and liabilities. SFAS 157, which does not require any new fair value measurements, clarifies the application of other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $8.055 billion and $6.633 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion and $5.463 billion, respectively) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % Gross profit 282,729 235,756 19.9 % Operating expenses 221,164 191,989 15.2 % Operating income 61,565 43,767 40.7 % Other income (expense) 10,517 3,980 164.2 % Net income 46,506 29,983 55.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.64 1.12 46.4 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 100,675 88,780 13.4 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 4.7 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 234 221 5.9 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 183 180 1.7 % Operating income per worksite employee per month 51 41 24.4 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 38 28 35.7 % (1) Gross billings of $6,667 and $6,226 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,517 and $5,128 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 18.8% over 2005 due to a 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 4.7%, or $52, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 4.7% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. By region, our revenue growth over 2005 and revenue distribution for years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 243,224 $ 177,466 37.1 % 17.5 % 15.1 % Southeast 129,803 101,785 27.5 % 9.3 % 8.7 % Central 193,787 153,477 26.3 % 14.0 % 13.1 % Southwest 503,498 458,196 9.9 % 36.3 % 39.2 % West 308,984 271,018 14.0 % 22.2 % 23.2 % Other revenues 10,168 7,670 32.6 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 29 Table of Contents Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. During 2006, the 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month resulted from improvements in new client sales and the net change in existing clients, while client retention, measured as a percentage of the worksite employee base, declined as compared to 2005. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.9% to $282.7 million compared to 2005. The average gross profit per worksite employee increased 5.9% to $234 per month in 2006 versus $221 in 2005. Our pricing objectives attempt to maintain or improve the gross profit per worksite employee by increasing revenue per worksite employee to match or exceed changes in primary direct costs and operating expenses. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 4.7%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 4.4% to $916 per worksite employee per month in 2006 versus $877 in 2005. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $18 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005, due to a 7.6% increase in average payroll cost per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost decreased from 7.46% in 2005 to 7.27% in 2006. The 2006 amount includes a $3.3 million payroll tax reduction, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to the California state unemployment tax matter. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of group health insurance and related employee benefits increased $26 per worksite employee per month to $453 compared to 2005. This increase is due to a 5.7% increase in the cost per covered employee and a slight increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.7% in 2005 versus 72.4% in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $5 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 0.92% in 2006 from 1.09% in 2005, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. During 2006, the Company recorded reductions in workers compensation costs of $6.4 million, or 0.11% of non bonus payroll costs, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges, compared to $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 119,963 $ 99,562 20.5 % $ 99 $ 93 6.5 % Stock based compensation 3,411 2,079 64.1 % 3 2 50.0 % General and administrative expenses 57,409 52,960 8.4 % 48 50 (4.0 )% Commissions 10,968 10,121 8.4 % 9 10 (10.0 )% Advertising 13,975 12,100 15.5 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,438 15,167 1.8 % 13 14 (7.1 )% Total operating expenses $ 221,164 $ 191,989 15.2 % $ 183 $ 180 1.7 % Operating expenses increased 15.2% to $221.2 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month increased 1.7% to $183 in 2006 versus $180 in 2005. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 20.5%, or $6 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. During 2006, the number of corporate employees increased 16.6%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 4.2% as compared to 2005. Stock based compensation increased 64.1%, or $1 per worksite employee per month. Stock based compensation expense primarily represents the vesting of restricted stock awards. The 2006 expense also includes $280,000 related to the annual stock grant made to the independent members of the Board of Directors. The 2005 amount includes $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 8.4% due primarily to higher expenses associated with the increase in corporate and worksite employee headcount, such as travel, postage and rent. General and administrative expenses decreased $2 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Commissions expense increased 8.4%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Advertising costs increased 15.5%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2006 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2005. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 1.8%, but declined $1 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2005. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) increased to $10.5 million in 2006 compared to $4.0 million in 2005. Interest income increased by $4.8 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program, and higher interest rates in 2006. Interest expense decreased $1.2 million as compared to 2005, due to the repayment of the $32.3 million outstanding variable rate mortgage on our corporate headquarters in May 2006. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2006 we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $25.6 million on pre tax income of $72.1 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses, offset by tax exempt interest income. Our effective income tax rate was 35.5% in the 2006 period compared to 37.2% in the 2005 period. Net Income Net income for 2006 was $46.5 million, or $1.64 per diluted share, compared to $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share in 2005. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 35.7% to $38 in 2006 versus $28 in 2005. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $6.633 billion and $5.377 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $5.463 billion and $4.407 billion, respectively) $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % Gross profit 235,756 197,694 19.3 % Operating expenses 191,989 175,563 9.4 % Operating income 43,767 22,131 97.8 % Other income (expense) 3,980 8,605 (53.7 )% Net income 29,983 19,210 56.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.12 0.72 55.6 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 88,780 77,936 13.9 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,098 $ 1,037 5.9 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 221 211 4.7 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 180 188 (4.3 )% Operating income per worksite employee per month 41 24 70.8 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 28 21 33.3 % (1) Gross billings of $6,226 and $5,749 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,128 and $4,712 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 20.6% over 2004 due to a 13.9% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 5.9%, or $61, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 5.9% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. The 13.9% increase in the average 32 Table of Contents number of worksite employees paid per month during 2005 resulted from increases in all three sources of paid worksite employees. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys revenues by region for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 177,466 $ 134,124 32.3 % 15.1 % 13.8 % Southeast 101,785 90,657 12.3 % 8.7 % 9.4 % Central 153,477 137,184 11.9 % 13.1 % 14.1 % Southwest 458,196 378,901 20.9 % 39.2 % 39.1 % West 271,018 222,209 22.0 % 23.2 % 22.9 % Other revenues 7,670 6,452 18.9 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.3% to $235.8 million compared to 2004. Gross profit per worksite employee increased 4.7% to $221 per month in 2005 versus $211 in 2004. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 5.9%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 6.2% to $877 per worksite employee per month in 2005 versus $826 in 2004. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $34 per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost were 7.46% in 2005. This compares to 7.41% in 2004 which included a $2.3 million payroll tax credit, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to a state unemployment matter with the state of California. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of health insurance and related employee benefits increased $23 per worksite employee per month to $427 compared to 2004. This increase is due to a 3.9% increase in the cost per covered employee and an increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.4% in 2005 versus 71.1% in 2004. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $7 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 1.09% in 2005 from 1.35% in 2004, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. These trends resulted in reductions in estimated accrued workers compensation costs related to prior reporting periods of $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs, in the 2005 period. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 99,562 $ 88,298 12.8 % $ 93 $ 94 (1.1 )% Stock based compensation 2,079 2 General and administrative expenses 52,960 49,283 7.5 % 50 53 (5.7 )% Commissions 10,121 10,447 (3.1 )% 10 11 (9.1 )% Advertising 12,100 10,021 20.7 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,167 17,514 (13.4 )% 14 19 (26.3 )% Total operating expenses $ 191,989 $ 175,563 9.4 % $ 180 $ 188 (4.3 )% Operating expenses increased 9.4% to $192.0 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month decreased 4.3% to $180 in 2005 versus $188 in 2004. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 12.8%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. During 2005, incentive compensation increased $6.1 million over 2004 due to the improved operating results. In addition, the number of corporate employees increased 3.1%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 3.4%. Stock based compensation expense of $2.1 million or $2 per worksite employee per month was a result of: (i) $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting during the first quarter of 2005; and (ii) $1,289,000 related to the amortization of deferred compensation expense associated with the February 2005 restricted stock grant. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 7.5%, but declined $3 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. The increase in total dollars is primarily due to increases in: (i) repairs and maintenance; and (ii) professional fees such as consulting fees, accounting fees and recruiting costs. Commissions expense decreased 3.1% or $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004, as an increase in commissions paid to sales personnel was more than offset by cost savings resulting from the termination of our marketing and commission arrangement with American Express in December 2004. Advertising costs increased 20.7%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2005 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2004. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 13.4% and $5 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2004 as the effect of certain fixed assets becoming fully amortized more than offset the incremental depreciation and amortization expense related to the 2005 capital additions. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased to $4.0 million in 2005 compared to $8.6 million in 2004, primarily due to the $8.25 million settlement of our dispute with Aetna during the 2004 period. Interest income increased by $4.1 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program and higher interest rates in 2005. 34 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2005, we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $17.8 million on pre tax income of $47.7 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Our effective income tax rate was 37.2% in the 2005 period compared to 37.5% in the 2004 period. Net Income Net income for 2005 was $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, compared to $19.2 million, or $0.72 per diluted share in 2004. Net income for 2004 included $5.2 million or $0.19 per share of proceeds related to the settlement of our dispute with Aetna. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 33.3% to $28 in 2005 versus $21 in 2004. Non GAAP Financial Measures Non bonus payroll cost is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of bonus payrolls paid to our worksite employees. Bonus payroll cost varies from period to period, but has no direct impact to our ultimate workers compensation costs under the current program. As a result, our management refers to non bonus payroll cost in analyzing, reporting and forecasting our workers compensation costs. Non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and may be different from non GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We include these non GAAP financial measures because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency related to the costs incurred under our current workers compensation program. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non GAAP financial measures used to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the table below. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Change (in thousands, except per worksite employee) GAAP to non GAAP reconciliation: Payroll cost (GAAP) $ 6,665,532 $ 5,463,474 22.0 % Less: bonus payroll cost 640,552 508,170 26.1 % Non Bonus payroll cost $ 6,024,980 $ 4,955,304 21.6 % Payroll cost per worksite employee (GAAP) $ 5,517 $ 5,128 7.6 % Less: Bonus payroll cost per worksite employee 530 477 11.1 % Non bonus payroll cost per worksite employee $ 4,987 $ 4,651 7.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources We periodically evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our expansion plans, debt service requirements and other operating cash needs. To meet short and long term liquidity requirements, including payment of direct and operating expenses and repaying debt, we rely primarily on cash from operations. However, we have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to raise additional capital or take other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. We had $234.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2006, of which approximately $105.3 million was payable in early January 2007 for withheld federal and state income taxes, employment taxes and other payroll deductions. At December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $128.4 million compared to $93.2 million at December 31, 2005. We currently believe that our cash on hand, marketable securities and cash flows 35 Table of Contents from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements for 2007. We will rely on these same sources, as well as public and private debt or equity financing, to meet our longer term liquidity and capital needs. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities in 2006 of $88.5 million reflected a decrease of $23.2 million from 2005. Our primary source of cash from operations is the comprehensive service fee and payroll funding we collect from our clients. The level of cash and cash equivalents, and thus our reported cash flows from operating activities are significantly impacted by various external and internal factors, which are reflected in part by the changes in our balance sheet accounts. These include the following: Timing of customer payments / payrolls We typically collect our comprehensive service fee, along with the clients payroll funding, from clients at least one day prior to the payment of worksite employee payrolls and associated payroll taxes. Therefore, the last business day of a reporting period has a substantial impact on our reporting of operating cash flows. For example, many worksite employees are paid on Fridays; therefore, operating cash flows decline in the reporting periods that end on a Friday, such as December 2006, when client prepayments were $9.1 million and accrued worksite employee payroll was $94.8 million. However, for those reporting periods that end on a Thursday, our cash flows are higher due to the collection of the comprehensive service fee and clients payroll funding prior to processing the large number worksite employees payrolls one day subsequent to the period end. Classification of tax benefit from stock based compensation In 2006, we adopted Statement 123(R), which requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation cost. In addition, Statement 123(R) requires the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation to be reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to 2006, we reported the tax benefit as a component of operating cash flows, which was $12.8 million in 2005. Operating results Our net income has a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Our net income increased to $46.5 million in 2006 from $30.0 million in 2005. Please read Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 on page 29. Medical plan funding Our healthcare contract with United establishes participant cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. Therefore, changes in the participation level of the United Plan have a direct impact on our operating cash flows. In addition, changes to the funding rates, which are solely determined by United based primarily upon recent claim history and anticipated cost trends, also have a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Since inception of the United Plan in January 2002, cash funded to United has exceeded Plan Costs, resulting in a $15.3 million surplus, $4.3 million of which is reflected as a current asset, and $11.0 million of which is reflected as a long term asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006. Additionally, the $17.5 million in long term deposits was returned to Administaff during 2005. Workers compensation plan funding Under our arrangement with AIG, we make monthly payments to AIG comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). These pre determined amounts are stipulated in our agreement with AIG, and are based primarily on anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates during the policy year. Changes in payroll levels from that which was anticipated in the arrangement with AIG can result in changes in the amount of the cash payments to AIG, which will impact our reporting of operating cash flows. Our claim funds paid to AIG, based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates, were $47.4 million, less claims paid of $20.7 million in 2006, and $50.0 million, less claims paid of $17.2 million for the 2005 period. This compares to our estimate of workers compensation loss costs of $37.8 million and $36.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, AIG returned $29.7 million and $22.8 million, respectively, to Administaff for the return of excess funding related to prior policy periods. 36 Table of Contents Cash Flows From Investing Activities Our cash flows used in investing activities of $40.4 million reflected a decrease of $25.1 million from 2005. During 2006, we invested $27.6 million in marketable securities and $12.9 million in capital expenditures, primarily computer hardware and software to enhance the performance and stability of our technology infrastructure. We expect approximately $15 million in capital expenditures in 2007. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $37.1 million during 2006, an increase of $46.5 million over 2005. In May 2006, we paid the remaining balance of $32.3 million on our variable rate mortgage prior to its maturity date of January 2008. Please read Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 22 for additional information. Additionally, we repurchased $24.2 million in treasury stock and paid $10.0 million in dividends, offset by the receipt of $16.8 million in stock option exercise proceeds and $12.7 million in income tax benefit from stock based compensation. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006 and the effect they are expected to have on our liquidity and capital resources (in thousands): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Contractual obligations: Capital lease obligations $ 1,749 $ 583 $ 1,166 $ $ Non cancelable operating leases 42,409 9,685 14,632 10,120 7,972 Purchase obligations (1) 14,512 6,933 6,709 380 490 Other long term liabilities Accrued workers compensation claim costs (2) 77,424 35,840 18,198 15,797 7,589 Total contractual cash obligations $ 136,094 $ 53,041 $ 40,705 $ 26,297 $ 16,051 (1) The table includes purchase obligations associated with non cancelable contracts individually greater than $100,000 and one year. (2) Accrued workers compensation claim costs include the short and long term amounts. For more information, please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. Seasonality, Inflation and Quarterly Fluctuations We believe the effects of inflation have not had a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll and Benefits Costs Under the CSA, we become a co employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for: payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Premiums Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2007, and automatically renews each year, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. Health insurance premiums are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. We employ extensive risk management procedures in an attempt to control our claims incidence and structure our benefits contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible. However, if we experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in claim activity, our health insurance costs could increase. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24. Increases in Workers Compensation Costs In 2003, facing continued capital constraints and a series of downgrades from various rating agencies, our former workers compensation insurance carrier for the two year period ending September 2003, Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company, a unit of Kemper Insurance Companies (Kemper), made the decision to substantially cease underwriting operations and voluntarily entered into run off. A run off is the professional management of an insurance companys discontinued, distressed or nonrenewed lines of insurance and associated liabilities outside of a judicial proceeding. In the event the run off process is not successful and Kemper is forced into bankruptcy or a similar proceeding, most states have established guaranty funds to pay remaining claims. However, the guarantee associations in some states, including Texas, have asserted that state law returns the liability for open claims under such policies to the insured, as we experienced when another former insurance carrier, Reliance National Indemnity Co., declared bankruptcy in 2001. In that case, the Texas state guaranty association asserted that it was entitled to full reimbursement from us for workers compensation benefits paid by the association. Although we settled that dispute within the limits of insurance coverage we had secured to cover potential claims returned to us related to the Reliance policies, if one or more states were to assert that liability for open claims with Kemper should be returned to us, we may be required to make a payment to the state covering estimated claims attributable to us. Any such payment would reduce net income, which may have a material adverse effect on net income in the reported period. The current workers compensation contract with AIG expires on September 30, 2007. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member 38 Table of Contents insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with AIG, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. In conjunction with entering into the AIG Program, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. State Regulation While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have adopted provisions for licensing, registration, certification or recognition of PEOs, and several others are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. The Company is in compliance with the requirements in all 31 states. Regardless of whether a state has licensing, registration or certification requirements for PEOs, we must comply with a number of other state and local regulations that could impact our operations. Corporate Office Employees We had approximately 1,700 corporate office and sales employees as of December 31, 2006. We believe our relations with our corporate office and sales employees are good. None of our corporate office and sales employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Intellectual Property Administaff currently has registered trademarks and certain copyrights. Although the Administaff mark is the most material trademark to our business, our trademarks as a whole are also of considerable importance to us. Additionally, our acquisition of certain assets from KnowledgePoint, a subsidiary of Recruitmax, in December 2005 included trademarks and other intellectual property. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Information on the Companys risk factors is included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We believe our current facilities are adequate for the purposes for which they are intended and they provide sufficient capacity to accommodate our expansion goals. We will continue to evaluate the need for additional facilities based on the rate of growth in worksite employees, the geographic distribution of the worksite employee base and our long term service delivery requirements. Corporate Headquarters Our corporate headquarters is located in Kingwood, Texas, in a 327,000 square foot office campus style facility. This 28 acre company owned office campus includes approximately nine acres of undeveloped land for future expansion. All development and support operations are located in the Kingwood facility, along with our record retention center and primary data processing center. Service Centers We currently have four service centers located in Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles. The Atlanta service center, which currently services approximately 27% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 40,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2014, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Dallas service center, which currently services approximately 23% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 40,000 square foot leased facility, which also serves as our backup data processing and disaster recovery center. This facility, which is under lease until 2008, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Houston service center, which currently services approximately 27% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 58,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2014, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. The Los Angeles service center, which currently services approximately 23% of our worksite employee base, is located in a 45,000 square foot leased facility. This facility, which is under lease until 2012, is designed to service approximately 40,000 worksite employees at full capacity. Sales Offices As of December 31, 2006, we had sales and service personnel in 31 facilities located in 22 sales markets throughout the United States. All of the facilities are leased facilities, and some of these facilities are shared by multiple sales offices and or client service personnel. As of December 31, 2006, we had 41 sales offices in these 22 markets. To take advantage of economic efficiencies, multiple sales offices may share a physical location. Each sales office is typically staffed by six to eight sales representatives, a district sales manager and an office administrator. In addition, we have placed certain client service personnel in a majority of our sales markets to provide high quality, localized service to our clients in those major markets. We expect to continue placing various client service personnel in sales markets as a critical mass of clients is attained in each market. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Other than as set forth below, we are not a party to any material pending legal proceedings other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business that we believe would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Class Action Litigation On June 13, 2003, a class action lawsuit was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas on behalf of purchasers of the Companys common stock alleging violations of the federal securities laws. After that date, six similar class actions were filed against the Company in that court. Those lawsuits also named as defendants certain of the Companys officers and directors. In May 2004, the lead plaintiff filed its Consolidated Complaint, which amended and consolidated the seven previously filed cases. In June 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint. On March 30, 2006, the court granted the Companys motion to dismiss and thereafter entered a final order of dismissal with prejudice. The lead plaintiff did not file a notice of appeal by the deadline to do so. Accordingly, this matter is now concluded. State Unemployment Taxes As a result of a 2001 corporate restructuring, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of the reserve account in May 2002 and also notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of our subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all of our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million. Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer, and the matter will proceed with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders, through solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the quarter ended December 31, 2006. 17 Table of Contents ITEM S K 401 (b). EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. The following table sets forth the names, ages (as of February 12, 2007) and positions of the Companys executive officers: Name Age Position Paul J. Sarvadi 50 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Richard G. Rawson 58 President A. Steve Arizpe 49 Executive Vice President, Client Services and Chief Operating Officer Jay E. Mincks 53 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing John H. Spurgin, II 60 Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary Douglas S. Sharp 45 Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Paul J. Sarvadi has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since August 2003. Mr. Sarvadi co founded Administaff in 1986 and served as Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from its inception in 1986 through April 1987, as Vice President from April 1987 through 1989 and as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1989 to August 2003. Prior to founding Administaff, Mr. Sarvadi started and operated several small businesses. Mr. Sarvadi has served as President of NAPEO and was a member of its Board of Directors for five years. He also served as President of the Texas Chapter of NAPEO for three of the first four years of its existence. Mr. Sarvadi was selected as the 2001 National Ernst Young Entrepreneur Of The Year for service industries. Richard G. Rawson has served as President since August 2003. He served as Executive Vice President, Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from February 1997 to August 2003. He joined Administaff in 1989 as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer. He previously served as a Senior Financial Officer and Controller for several companies in the manufacturing and seismic data processing industries. Mr. Rawson has served as President, First Vice President, Second Vice President and Treasurer of NAPEO as well as Chairman of the NAPEO Accounting Practices Committee. A. Steve Arizpe has served as Executive Vice President, Client Services and Chief Operating Officer since August 2003. He joined Administaff in 1989 and has served in a variety of roles, including Houston Sales Manager, Regional Sales Manager, Vice President of Sales and Executive Vice President, Client Services. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Arizpe served in sales and sales management roles for two large corporations. Jay E. Mincks has served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing since January 1999. Mr. Mincks served as Vice President, Sales and Marketing from February 1997 through January 1999. He joined Administaff in 1990 and has served in a variety of other roles, including Houston Sales Manager and Regional Sales Manager for the Western United States. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Mincks served in a variety of positions, including management positions, in the sales and sales training fields with various large companies. John H. Spurgin, II has served as Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary since August 2003. He joined Administaff in January 1997 as Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Administaff, Mr. Spurgin was a partner with the Austin office of McGinnis, Lochridge Kilgore, L.L.P., where he served as Administaffs outside counsel for nine years. Douglas S. Sharp has served as Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since August 2003. He joined Administaff in January 2000 as Vice President, Finance and Controller. From July 1994 until he joined Administaff, Mr. Sharp served as Chief Financial Officer for Rimkus Consulting Group, Inc. Prior to that, he served as Controller for a small publicly held company; as Controller for a large software company; and as an Audit Manager for Ernst Young LLP. Mr. Sharp has served as a member of the Accounting Practices Committee of NAPEO since January 2002. 18 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF SECURITIES. Price Range of Common Stock Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ASF. As of January 31, 2007, there were 245 holders of record of the common stock. This number does not include stockholders for whom shares were held in nominee or street name. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite transactional tape. High Low 2006 First Quarter $ 54.90 $ 37.55 Second Quarter 58.99 33.20 Third Quarter 39.12 30.30 Fourth Quarter 43.54 32.70 2005 First Quarter $ 16.25 $ 11.65 Second Quarter 23.95 13.47 Third Quarter 39.99 22.56 Fourth Quarter 48.43 35.80 Dividend Policy During each quarter of 2006, the Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share of common stock. During 2006 and 2005, the Company paid dividends of $10.0 million and $7.4 million, respectively. The payment of dividends is made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information about our purchases of Administaff common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2006: Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Maximum Number of Total Number Publicly Shares that May Yet Be of Shares Average Price Paid Announced Purchased Under the Period Purchased (1) per Share Program (2) Program (2) 10/01/2006 10/31/2006 $ 8,006,534 493,466 11/01/2006 11/30/2006 9,215 42.66 8,015,749 484,251 12/01/2006 12/31/2006 8,015,749 484,251 Total 9,215 $ 42.66 8,015,749 484,251 19 Table of Contents (1) Our Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to an aggregate amount of 8,500,000 shares of Administaff common stock, of which 8,015,749 shares had been repurchased as of December 31, 2006. During the three months ended December 31, 2006, we purchased 9,215 shares of our common stock. (2) Unless terminated earlier by resolution of the Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program. Performance Graph The following graph compares our cumulative total stockholder return since December 31, 2001 with the Standard Poors Small Cap 600 Stock Index and a peer group index composed of other companies with similar business models (Peer Group.) The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 on December 31, 2001. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Administaff, Inc., The S P Smallcap 600 Index And A Peer Group * $100 invested on 13/31/01 in stock or index including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. Copyright 2007, Standard Poors, a division of The mcGraw Hill Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. www.researchdatagroup.com/SP.htm 12/01 12/02 12/03 12/04 12/05 12/06 Administaff, Inc. 100.00 21.89 63.41 46.01 155.26 159.31 S P Smallcap 600 100.00 85.37 118.48 145.32 156.48 180.14 Peer Group 100.00 71.09 80.77 85.31 92.29 99.34 20 Table of Contents This peer group is comprised of the following companies: Automatic Data Processing, Gevity HR, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. The total return for each member of this peer group has been weighted to each members stock market capitalization. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 22. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Income Statement Data: Revenues (1) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 $ 890,859 $ 848,416 Gross profit 282,729 235,756 197,694 197,105 165,790 Operating income 61,565 43,767 22,131 24,274 67 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 46,506 29,983 19,210 14,985 (2,921 ) Net loss from discontinued operations (2,121 ) (1,160 ) Net income (loss) 46,506 29,983 19,210 12,864 (4,081 ) Diluted net income (loss) per share from continuing operations $ 1.64 $ 1.12 $ 0.72 $ 0.55 $ (0.11 ) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 128,401 $ 93,235 $ 47,500 $ 56,032 $ 41,238 Total assets 561,515 495,439 355,388 348,071 315,164 Total debt 1,749 34,890 36,539 42,362 44,169 Total stockholders equity 228,445 182,429 126,529 122,634 116,349 Cash dividends per share 0.36 0.28 Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month during period 100,675 88,780 77,936 75,036 77,334 Revenues per worksite employee per month (2) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 $ 1,037 $ 989 $ 914 Gross profit per worksite employee per month $ 234 $ 221 $ 211 $ 219 $ 179 Operating income per worksite employee per month $ 51 $ 41 $ 24 $ 27 $ (1) Gross billings of $8.055 billion, $6.633 billion, $5.377 billion, $4.829 billion, and $4.857 billion, less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion, $5.463 billion, $4.407 billion, $3.938 billion and $4.009 billion, respectively. (2) Gross billings of $6,667, $6,226, $5,749, $5,363 and $5,234 per worksite employee per month, less payroll cost of $5,517, $5,128, $4,712, $4,373 and $4,320 per worksite employee per month, respectively. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. The statements contained in this annual report that are not historical facts are forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements in this annual report could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Item 7 under Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38 and the uncertainties set forth from time to time in our other public reports and filings and public statements. Overview We provide a comprehensive Personnel Management System that encompasses a broad range of services, including benefits and payroll administration, health and workers compensation insurance programs, personnel records management, employer liability management, employee recruiting and selection, employee performance management, and employee training and development services. Our long term strategy continues to be aggregating the best small businesses in the United States on the common platform of our unique human resource service offering, thereby leveraging our buying power to provide additional valuable services to clients. Our overall operating results can be measured in terms of revenues, payroll costs, gross profit or operating income per worksite employee per month. We often use the number of worksite employees paid as our unit of measurement in analyzing and discussing our results of operations. Our key objective for 2006 was to continue to accelerate the growth in the number of paid worksite employees while appropriately pricing our service offering. We ended 2006 averaging 104,325 paid worksite employees in the fourth quarter, which represents a 10.9% increase over the fourth quarter of 2005. Our average number of worksite employees paid for the full year increased 13.4% over 2005. These increases were driven by improvements in sales and the net change in existing clients. Our 2006 average gross profit per worksite employee per month of $234 reflected the effective execution of our pricing strategy, including a slight increase in the markup related to our HR services, while managing our direct costs to better than expected levels. Lower than expected direct costs, particularly benefits costs and workers compensation costs, were primarily a result of the favorable trends in claims experience, complemented by lower administrative fees negotiated with our insurance carriers. Benefits costs per participant increased 5.7% over 2005, while workers compensation costs as a percentage of non bonus payroll declined by 15.6%. Operating expenses increased by 15.2% in 2006 to $221.2 million on a 13.4% increase in the number of worksite employees paid. Operating expenses increased due primarily to investments in sales and service personnel for the current and future growth of our business. On a per worksite employee per month basis, operating expenses increased from $180 in 2005 to $183 in 2006. Our net income increased 55.1% to $46.5 million in 2006 over 2005. We ended 2006 with working capital of $128.4 million, which is a $35.2 million increase from the end of 2005. Revenues We account for our revenues in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 99 19, Reporting Revenues Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent. Our gross billings to clients include the payroll cost of each worksite employee at the client location and a markup computed as a percentage of each worksite employees payroll cost. We invoice the gross billings concurrently with each periodic payroll of our worksite employees. Revenues, which exclude the payroll cost component of gross billings, and therefore, consist solely of the markup, are recognized ratably over the payroll period as worksite employees perform their service at the client worksite. 22 Table of Contents This markup includes pricing components associated with our estimates of payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs, plus a separate component related to our HR services. We include revenues that have been recognized but not invoiced in unbilled accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our revenues are primarily dependent on the number of clients enrolled, the resulting number of worksite employees paid each period and the number of worksite employees enrolled in our benefit plans. Because our markup is computed as a percentage of payroll cost, revenues are also affected by the payroll cost of worksite employees, which may fluctuate based on the composition of the worksite employee base, inflationary effects on wage levels and differences in the local economies of our markets. Direct Costs The primary direct costs associated with our revenue generating activities are: employment related taxes (payroll taxes); costs of employee benefit plans; and workers compensation costs. Payroll taxes consist of the employers portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes under FICA, federal unemployment taxes and state unemployment taxes. Payroll taxes are generally paid as a percentage of payroll cost. The federal tax rates are defined by federal regulations. State unemployment tax rates are subject to claim histories and vary from state to state. Employee benefits costs are comprised primarily of health insurance costs (including dental and pharmacy costs), but also include costs of other employee benefits such as life insurance, vision care, disability insurance, education assistance, adoption assistance, a flexible spending account and a worklife program. Workers compensation costs include administrative and risk charges paid to the insurance carrier, and claims costs, which are driven primarily by the frequency and severity of claims. Gross Profit Our gross profit per worksite employee is primarily determined by our ability to accurately estimate and control direct costs and our ability to incorporate changes in these costs into the gross billings charged to clients, which are subject to contractual arrangements that are typically renewed annually. We use gross profit per worksite employee per month as our principal measurement of relative performance at the gross profit level. Operating Expenses Salaries, wages and payroll taxes Salaries, wages and payroll taxes are primarily a function of the number of corporate employees and their associated average pay and any additional incentive compensation. Our corporate employees include client services, sales and marketing, benefits, legal, finance, information technology and administrative support personnel. Stock based compensation Our stock based compensation primarily relates to the recognition of non cash compensation expense over the vesting period of restricted stock awards. In 2005, the non cash expenses associated with the acceleration of stock option vesting were also included. 23 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses primarily include: rent expenses related to our service centers and sales offices; outside professional service fees related to legal, consulting and accounting services; administrative costs, such as postage, printing and supplies; employee travel expenses; and repairs and maintenance costs associated with our facilities and technology infrastructure. Commissions Commission expense consists of amounts paid to sales personnel. Commissions for sales personnel are based on a percentage of revenue generated by such personnel. Advertising Advertising expense primarily consists of media advertising and other business promotions in our current and anticipated sales markets, including the Administaff Small Business Classic sponsorship. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense is primarily a function of our capital investments in corporate facilities, service centers, sales offices and technology infrastructure. Income Taxes Administaffs provision for income taxes typically differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, due primarily to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant items resulting in deferred income taxes include prepaid assets, accruals for workers compensation expenses and depreciation. Changes in these items are reflected in our financial statements through a deferred income tax provision. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Administaffs discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to health and workers compensation insurance claims experience, state unemployment and payroll taxes, client bad debts, income taxes, property and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, and contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following accounting policies are critical and or require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements: Benefits costs We provide group health insurance coverage to our worksite employees through a national network of carriers including UnitedHealthcare (United), Cigna Healthcare, PacifiCare, Kaiser Permanente, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Shield of California, Hawaii Medical Service Association and Tufts, all of which provide fully insured policies or service contracts. The policy with United, which was first obtained in January 2002, provides the majority of our health insurance coverage. As a result of certain contractual terms, we have accounted for this plan since its inception using a partially self funded insurance accounting model. Accordingly, we record the costs of the United Plan, including an estimate of the incurred claims, taxes and administrative fees (collectively the Plan Costs), as benefits expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The estimated incurred claims are based upon: (i) the level of claims processed during the quarter; (ii) recent claim development patterns under the plan, to estimate a completion rate; and (iii) the number of participants in the plan. Each reporting period, changes in 24 Table of Contents the estimated ultimate costs resulting from claim trends, plan design and migration, participant demographics and other factors are incorporated into the benefits costs. Additionally, since the plans inception in January 2002, under the terms of the contract, United establishes cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. If the Plan Costs for a reporting quarter are greater than the cash funded to United, a deficit in the plan would be incurred and we would accrue a liability for the excess costs on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. On the other hand, if the Plan Costs for the reporting quarter are less than the cash funded to United, a surplus in the plan would be incurred and we would record an asset for the excess premiums on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The terms of the arrangement require us to maintain an accumulated cash surplus in the plan of $11 million, which is reported as long term prepaid insurance. As of December 31, 2006, Plan Costs were less than the net cash funded to United by $15.3 million. As this amount is in excess of the agreed upon $11 million surplus maintenance level, the $4.3 million balance is included in prepaid insurance, a current asset, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We believe the use of recent claims activity is representative of incurred and paid trends during the reporting period. The estimated completion rate used to compute incurred but not reported claims involves a significant level of judgment. Accordingly, an increase (or decrease) in the completion rates used to estimate the incurred claims would result in a decrease (or increase) in benefits costs and net income would increase (or decrease) accordingly. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the completion rates on our estimate of total benefit costs of $547.4 million in 2006: Change in Change in Change in Benefits Costs Net Income Completion Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (2.5)% $ (7,943 ) $ 5,123 (1.0)% (3,177 ) 2,049 1.0% 3,177 (2,049 ) 2.5% 7,943 (5,123 ) State unemployment taxes We record our state unemployment (SUI) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received. In December 2001, as a result of a 2001 corporate reorganization, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of our reserve account in May 2002, and notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of Administaffs subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million (Settlement). Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The Settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the 25 Table of Contents State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer and the matter proceeded with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. Workers compensation costs Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. Because we bear the economic burden of the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence, such claims, which are the primary component of our workers compensation costs, are recorded in the period incurred. Workers compensation insurance includes ongoing healthcare and indemnity coverage whereby claims are paid over numerous years following the date of injury. Accordingly, the accrual of related incurred costs in each reporting period includes estimates, which take into account the ongoing development of claims and therefore requires a significant level of judgment. Our management estimates our workers compensation costs by applying an aggregate loss development rate to worksite employee payroll levels. We employ a third party actuary to estimate our loss development rate, which is primarily based upon the nature of worksite employees job responsibilities, the location of worksite employees, the historical frequency and severity of workers compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. Each reporting period, changes in the actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into the Companys workers compensation claims cost estimates. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, Administaff reduced accrued workers compensation costs by $6.4 million and $4.6 million, respectively, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges related to prior reporting periods. Workers compensation cost estimates are discounted to present value at a rate based upon the U.S. Treasury rates that correspond with the weighted average estimated claim payout period (the average discount rate utilized in 2006 and 2005 was 4.8% and 3.9%, respectively) and are accreted over the estimated claim payment period and included as a component of direct costs in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our claim trends could be greater than or less than our prior estimates, in which case we would revise our claims estimates and record an adjustment to workers compensation costs in the period such determination is made. If we were to experience any significant changes in actuarial assumptions, our loss development rates could increase (or decrease) which would result in an increase (or decrease) in workers compensation costs and a resulting decrease (or increase) in net income reported in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the loss development rate on our estimate of workers compensation costs totaling $55.7 million in 2006: Change in Workers Change in Change in Loss Compensation Costs Net Income Development Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (5)% $ (2,241 ) $ 1,446 (2.5)% (1,121 ) 723 2.5% 1,121 (723 ) 5% 2,241 (1,446 ) At the beginning of each policy period, the insurance carrier, AIG, establishes monthly funding requirements comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). The level 26 Table of Contents of claim funds is primarily based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and expected workers compensation loss rates, as determined by AIG. Monies funded into the program for incurred claims expected to be paid within one year are recorded as restricted cash, a short term asset, while the remainder of claim funds are included in deposits, a long term asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid within one year are recorded as accrued workers compensation costs and included in short term liabilities, while our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid beyond one year are included in long term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2006, we had restricted cash of $37.4 million and deposits of $46.4 million. We have estimated and accrued $77.4 million in incurred workers compensation claim costs, as of December 31, 2006. Contingent liabilities We accrue and disclose contingent liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. SFAS No. 5 requires accrual of contingent liabilities that are considered probable to occur and that can be reasonably estimated. For contingent liabilities that are considered reasonably possible to occur, financial statement disclosure is required, including the range of possible loss if it can be reasonably determined. We have disclosed in our audited financial statements several issues that we believe are reasonably possible to occur, although we cannot determine the range of possible loss in all cases. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As these issues develop, we will continue to evaluate the probability of future loss and the potential range of such losses. If such evaluation were to determine that a loss was probable and the loss could be reasonably estimated, we would be required to accrue our estimated loss, which would reduce net income in the period that such determination was made. Deferred taxes We have recorded a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, our ability to realize our deferred tax assets could change from our current estimates. If we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to reduce the valuation allowance would increase net income in the period that such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to increase the valuation allowance would reduce net income in the period such determination is made. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to pay their comprehensive service fees. We believe that the success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to collect these comprehensive service fees for several reasons, including: the fact that we are at risk for the payment of our direct costs and worksite employee payroll costs regardless of whether our clients pay their comprehensive service fees; the large volume and dollar amount of transactions we process; and the periodic and recurring nature of payroll, upon which the comprehensive service fees are based. To mitigate this risk, we have established very tight credit policies. We generally require our clients to pay their comprehensive service fees no later than one day prior to the applicable payroll date. In addition, we maintain the right to terminate the Client Service Agreement and associated worksite employees or to require prepayment, letters of credit or other collateral if a clients financial position deteriorates or if the client does not pay the comprehensive service fee. As a result of these efforts, losses related to customer nonpayment have historically been low as a percentage of revenues. However, if our clients financial condition were to deteriorate rapidly, resulting in nonpayment, our accounts receivable balances could grow and we could be required to provide for additional allowances, which would decrease net income in the period that such determination was made. 27 Table of Contents Property and equipment Our property and equipment relate primarily to our facilities and related improvements, furniture and fixtures, computer hardware and software and capitalized software development costs. These costs are depreciated or amortized over the estimated useful lives of the assets. If we determine that the useful lives of these assets will be shorter than we currently estimate, our depreciation and amortization expense could be accelerated, which would decrease net income in the periods of such a determination. In addition, we periodically evaluate these costs for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. If events or circumstances were to indicate that any of our long lived assets might be impaired, we would analyze the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the applicable asset. In addition, we would record an impairment loss, which would reduce net income, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeded the fair value of the asset. Fair value is generally determined using an estimate of discounted future net cash flows from operating activities or upon disposal of the asset. Goodwill and other intangibles The December 2005 acquisition of HRTools.com and associated software applications included certain identifiable intangible assets and goodwill implied in the purchase price. The goodwill and intangible assets are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Our purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, five to ten years. New Accounting Pronouncements In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 requires that a position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return be recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e. a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, the cumulative effect of applying the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 48, if any, shall be reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of FIN 48 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, FASB Statement 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157) was issued. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by providing a standard definition of fair value as it applies to assets and liabilities. SFAS 157, which does not require any new fair value measurements, clarifies the application of other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $8.055 billion and $6.633 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion and $5.463 billion, respectively) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % Gross profit 282,729 235,756 19.9 % Operating expenses 221,164 191,989 15.2 % Operating income 61,565 43,767 40.7 % Other income (expense) 10,517 3,980 164.2 % Net income 46,506 29,983 55.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.64 1.12 46.4 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 100,675 88,780 13.4 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 4.7 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 234 221 5.9 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 183 180 1.7 % Operating income per worksite employee per month 51 41 24.4 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 38 28 35.7 % (1) Gross billings of $6,667 and $6,226 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,517 and $5,128 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 18.8% over 2005 due to a 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 4.7%, or $52, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 4.7% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. By region, our revenue growth over 2005 and revenue distribution for years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 243,224 $ 177,466 37.1 % 17.5 % 15.1 % Southeast 129,803 101,785 27.5 % 9.3 % 8.7 % Central 193,787 153,477 26.3 % 14.0 % 13.1 % Southwest 503,498 458,196 9.9 % 36.3 % 39.2 % West 308,984 271,018 14.0 % 22.2 % 23.2 % Other revenues 10,168 7,670 32.6 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 29 Table of Contents Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. During 2006, the 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month resulted from improvements in new client sales and the net change in existing clients, while client retention, measured as a percentage of the worksite employee base, declined as compared to 2005. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.9% to $282.7 million compared to 2005. The average gross profit per worksite employee increased 5.9% to $234 per month in 2006 versus $221 in 2005. Our pricing objectives attempt to maintain or improve the gross profit per worksite employee by increasing revenue per worksite employee to match or exceed changes in primary direct costs and operating expenses. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 4.7%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 4.4% to $916 per worksite employee per month in 2006 versus $877 in 2005. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $18 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005, due to a 7.6% increase in average payroll cost per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost decreased from 7.46% in 2005 to 7.27% in 2006. The 2006 amount includes a $3.3 million payroll tax reduction, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to the California state unemployment tax matter. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of group health insurance and related employee benefits increased $26 per worksite employee per month to $453 compared to 2005. This increase is due to a 5.7% increase in the cost per covered employee and a slight increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.7% in 2005 versus 72.4% in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $5 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 0.92% in 2006 from 1.09% in 2005, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. During 2006, the Company recorded reductions in workers compensation costs of $6.4 million, or 0.11% of non bonus payroll costs, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges, compared to $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 119,963 $ 99,562 20.5 % $ 99 $ 93 6.5 % Stock based compensation 3,411 2,079 64.1 % 3 2 50.0 % General and administrative expenses 57,409 52,960 8.4 % 48 50 (4.0 )% Commissions 10,968 10,121 8.4 % 9 10 (10.0 )% Advertising 13,975 12,100 15.5 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,438 15,167 1.8 % 13 14 (7.1 )% Total operating expenses $ 221,164 $ 191,989 15.2 % $ 183 $ 180 1.7 % Operating expenses increased 15.2% to $221.2 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month increased 1.7% to $183 in 2006 versus $180 in 2005. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 20.5%, or $6 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. During 2006, the number of corporate employees increased 16.6%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 4.2% as compared to 2005. Stock based compensation increased 64.1%, or $1 per worksite employee per month. Stock based compensation expense primarily represents the vesting of restricted stock awards. The 2006 expense also includes $280,000 related to the annual stock grant made to the independent members of the Board of Directors. The 2005 amount includes $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 8.4% due primarily to higher expenses associated with the increase in corporate and worksite employee headcount, such as travel, postage and rent. General and administrative expenses decreased $2 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Commissions expense increased 8.4%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Advertising costs increased 15.5%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2006 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2005. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 1.8%, but declined $1 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2005. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) increased to $10.5 million in 2006 compared to $4.0 million in 2005. Interest income increased by $4.8 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program, and higher interest rates in 2006. Interest expense decreased $1.2 million as compared to 2005, due to the repayment of the $32.3 million outstanding variable rate mortgage on our corporate headquarters in May 2006. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2006 we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $25.6 million on pre tax income of $72.1 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses, offset by tax exempt interest income. Our effective income tax rate was 35.5% in the 2006 period compared to 37.2% in the 2005 period. Net Income Net income for 2006 was $46.5 million, or $1.64 per diluted share, compared to $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share in 2005. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 35.7% to $38 in 2006 versus $28 in 2005. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $6.633 billion and $5.377 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $5.463 billion and $4.407 billion, respectively) $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % Gross profit 235,756 197,694 19.3 % Operating expenses 191,989 175,563 9.4 % Operating income 43,767 22,131 97.8 % Other income (expense) 3,980 8,605 (53.7 )% Net income 29,983 19,210 56.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.12 0.72 55.6 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 88,780 77,936 13.9 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,098 $ 1,037 5.9 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 221 211 4.7 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 180 188 (4.3 )% Operating income per worksite employee per month 41 24 70.8 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 28 21 33.3 % (1) Gross billings of $6,226 and $5,749 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,128 and $4,712 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 20.6% over 2004 due to a 13.9% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 5.9%, or $61, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 5.9% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. The 13.9% increase in the average 32 Table of Contents number of worksite employees paid per month during 2005 resulted from increases in all three sources of paid worksite employees. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys revenues by region for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 177,466 $ 134,124 32.3 % 15.1 % 13.8 % Southeast 101,785 90,657 12.3 % 8.7 % 9.4 % Central 153,477 137,184 11.9 % 13.1 % 14.1 % Southwest 458,196 378,901 20.9 % 39.2 % 39.1 % West 271,018 222,209 22.0 % 23.2 % 22.9 % Other revenues 7,670 6,452 18.9 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.3% to $235.8 million compared to 2004. Gross profit per worksite employee increased 4.7% to $221 per month in 2005 versus $211 in 2004. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 5.9%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 6.2% to $877 per worksite employee per month in 2005 versus $826 in 2004. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $34 per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost were 7.46% in 2005. This compares to 7.41% in 2004 which included a $2.3 million payroll tax credit, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to a state unemployment matter with the state of California. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of health insurance and related employee benefits increased $23 per worksite employee per month to $427 compared to 2004. This increase is due to a 3.9% increase in the cost per covered employee and an increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.4% in 2005 versus 71.1% in 2004. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $7 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 1.09% in 2005 from 1.35% in 2004, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. These trends resulted in reductions in estimated accrued workers compensation costs related to prior reporting periods of $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs, in the 2005 period. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 99,562 $ 88,298 12.8 % $ 93 $ 94 (1.1 )% Stock based compensation 2,079 2 General and administrative expenses 52,960 49,283 7.5 % 50 53 (5.7 )% Commissions 10,121 10,447 (3.1 )% 10 11 (9.1 )% Advertising 12,100 10,021 20.7 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,167 17,514 (13.4 )% 14 19 (26.3 )% Total operating expenses $ 191,989 $ 175,563 9.4 % $ 180 $ 188 (4.3 )% Operating expenses increased 9.4% to $192.0 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month decreased 4.3% to $180 in 2005 versus $188 in 2004. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 12.8%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. During 2005, incentive compensation increased $6.1 million over 2004 due to the improved operating results. In addition, the number of corporate employees increased 3.1%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 3.4%. Stock based compensation expense of $2.1 million or $2 per worksite employee per month was a result of: (i) $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting during the first quarter of 2005; and (ii) $1,289,000 related to the amortization of deferred compensation expense associated with the February 2005 restricted stock grant. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 7.5%, but declined $3 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. The increase in total dollars is primarily due to increases in: (i) repairs and maintenance; and (ii) professional fees such as consulting fees, accounting fees and recruiting costs. Commissions expense decreased 3.1% or $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004, as an increase in commissions paid to sales personnel was more than offset by cost savings resulting from the termination of our marketing and commission arrangement with American Express in December 2004. Advertising costs increased 20.7%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2005 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2004. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 13.4% and $5 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2004 as the effect of certain fixed assets becoming fully amortized more than offset the incremental depreciation and amortization expense related to the 2005 capital additions. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased to $4.0 million in 2005 compared to $8.6 million in 2004, primarily due to the $8.25 million settlement of our dispute with Aetna during the 2004 period. Interest income increased by $4.1 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program and higher interest rates in 2005. 34 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2005, we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $17.8 million on pre tax income of $47.7 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Our effective income tax rate was 37.2% in the 2005 period compared to 37.5% in the 2004 period. Net Income Net income for 2005 was $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, compared to $19.2 million, or $0.72 per diluted share in 2004. Net income for 2004 included $5.2 million or $0.19 per share of proceeds related to the settlement of our dispute with Aetna. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 33.3% to $28 in 2005 versus $21 in 2004. Non GAAP Financial Measures Non bonus payroll cost is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of bonus payrolls paid to our worksite employees. Bonus payroll cost varies from period to period, but has no direct impact to our ultimate workers compensation costs under the current program. As a result, our management refers to non bonus payroll cost in analyzing, reporting and forecasting our workers compensation costs. Non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and may be different from non GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We include these non GAAP financial measures because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency related to the costs incurred under our current workers compensation program. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non GAAP financial measures used to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the table below. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Change (in thousands, except per worksite employee) GAAP to non GAAP reconciliation: Payroll cost (GAAP) $ 6,665,532 $ 5,463,474 22.0 % Less: bonus payroll cost 640,552 508,170 26.1 % Non Bonus payroll cost $ 6,024,980 $ 4,955,304 21.6 % Payroll cost per worksite employee (GAAP) $ 5,517 $ 5,128 7.6 % Less: Bonus payroll cost per worksite employee 530 477 11.1 % Non bonus payroll cost per worksite employee $ 4,987 $ 4,651 7.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources We periodically evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our expansion plans, debt service requirements and other operating cash needs. To meet short and long term liquidity requirements, including payment of direct and operating expenses and repaying debt, we rely primarily on cash from operations. However, we have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to raise additional capital or take other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. We had $234.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2006, of which approximately $105.3 million was payable in early January 2007 for withheld federal and state income taxes, employment taxes and other payroll deductions. At December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $128.4 million compared to $93.2 million at December 31, 2005. We currently believe that our cash on hand, marketable securities and cash flows 35 Table of Contents from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements for 2007. We will rely on these same sources, as well as public and private debt or equity financing, to meet our longer term liquidity and capital needs. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities in 2006 of $88.5 million reflected a decrease of $23.2 million from 2005. Our primary source of cash from operations is the comprehensive service fee and payroll funding we collect from our clients. The level of cash and cash equivalents, and thus our reported cash flows from operating activities are significantly impacted by various external and internal factors, which are reflected in part by the changes in our balance sheet accounts. These include the following: Timing of customer payments / payrolls We typically collect our comprehensive service fee, along with the clients payroll funding, from clients at least one day prior to the payment of worksite employee payrolls and associated payroll taxes. Therefore, the last business day of a reporting period has a substantial impact on our reporting of operating cash flows. For example, many worksite employees are paid on Fridays; therefore, operating cash flows decline in the reporting periods that end on a Friday, such as December 2006, when client prepayments were $9.1 million and accrued worksite employee payroll was $94.8 million. However, for those reporting periods that end on a Thursday, our cash flows are higher due to the collection of the comprehensive service fee and clients payroll funding prior to processing the large number worksite employees payrolls one day subsequent to the period end. Classification of tax benefit from stock based compensation In 2006, we adopted Statement 123(R), which requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation cost. In addition, Statement 123(R) requires the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation to be reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to 2006, we reported the tax benefit as a component of operating cash flows, which was $12.8 million in 2005. Operating results Our net income has a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Our net income increased to $46.5 million in 2006 from $30.0 million in 2005. Please read Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 on page 29. Medical plan funding Our healthcare contract with United establishes participant cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. Therefore, changes in the participation level of the United Plan have a direct impact on our operating cash flows. In addition, changes to the funding rates, which are solely determined by United based primarily upon recent claim history and anticipated cost trends, also have a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Since inception of the United Plan in January 2002, cash funded to United has exceeded Plan Costs, resulting in a $15.3 million surplus, $4.3 million of which is reflected as a current asset, and $11.0 million of which is reflected as a long term asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006. Additionally, the $17.5 million in long term deposits was returned to Administaff during 2005. Workers compensation plan funding Under our arrangement with AIG, we make monthly payments to AIG comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). These pre determined amounts are stipulated in our agreement with AIG, and are based primarily on anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates during the policy year. Changes in payroll levels from that which was anticipated in the arrangement with AIG can result in changes in the amount of the cash payments to AIG, which will impact our reporting of operating cash flows. Our claim funds paid to AIG, based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates, were $47.4 million, less claims paid of $20.7 million in 2006, and $50.0 million, less claims paid of $17.2 million for the 2005 period. This compares to our estimate of workers compensation loss costs of $37.8 million and $36.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, AIG returned $29.7 million and $22.8 million, respectively, to Administaff for the return of excess funding related to prior policy periods. 36 Table of Contents Cash Flows From Investing Activities Our cash flows used in investing activities of $40.4 million reflected a decrease of $25.1 million from 2005. During 2006, we invested $27.6 million in marketable securities and $12.9 million in capital expenditures, primarily computer hardware and software to enhance the performance and stability of our technology infrastructure. We expect approximately $15 million in capital expenditures in 2007. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $37.1 million during 2006, an increase of $46.5 million over 2005. In May 2006, we paid the remaining balance of $32.3 million on our variable rate mortgage prior to its maturity date of January 2008. Please read Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 22 for additional information. Additionally, we repurchased $24.2 million in treasury stock and paid $10.0 million in dividends, offset by the receipt of $16.8 million in stock option exercise proceeds and $12.7 million in income tax benefit from stock based compensation. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006 and the effect they are expected to have on our liquidity and capital resources (in thousands): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Contractual obligations: Capital lease obligations $ 1,749 $ 583 $ 1,166 $ $ Non cancelable operating leases 42,409 9,685 14,632 10,120 7,972 Purchase obligations (1) 14,512 6,933 6,709 380 490 Other long term liabilities Accrued workers compensation claim costs (2) 77,424 35,840 18,198 15,797 7,589 Total contractual cash obligations $ 136,094 $ 53,041 $ 40,705 $ 26,297 $ 16,051 (1) The table includes purchase obligations associated with non cancelable contracts individually greater than $100,000 and one year. (2) Accrued workers compensation claim costs include the short and long term amounts. For more information, please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. Seasonality, Inflation and Quarterly Fluctuations We believe the effects of inflation have not had a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll and Benefits Costs Under the CSA, we become a co employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for: payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Premiums Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2007, and automatically renews each year, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. Health insurance premiums are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. We employ extensive risk management procedures in an attempt to control our claims incidence and structure our benefits contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible. However, if we experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in claim activity, our health insurance costs could increase. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24. Increases in Workers Compensation Costs In 2003, facing continued capital constraints and a series of downgrades from various rating agencies, our former workers compensation insurance carrier for the two year period ending September 2003, Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company, a unit of Kemper Insurance Companies (Kemper), made the decision to substantially cease underwriting operations and voluntarily entered into run off. A run off is the professional management of an insurance companys discontinued, distressed or nonrenewed lines of insurance and associated liabilities outside of a judicial proceeding. In the event the run off process is not successful and Kemper is forced into bankruptcy or a similar proceeding, most states have established guaranty funds to pay remaining claims. However, the guarantee associations in some states, including Texas, have asserted that state law returns the liability for open claims under such policies to the insured, as we experienced when another former insurance carrier, Reliance National Indemnity Co., declared bankruptcy in 2001. In that case, the Texas state guaranty association asserted that it was entitled to full reimbursement from us for workers compensation benefits paid by the association. Although we settled that dispute within the limits of insurance coverage we had secured to cover potential claims returned to us related to the Reliance policies, if one or more states were to assert that liability for open claims with Kemper should be returned to us, we may be required to make a payment to the state covering estimated claims attributable to us. Any such payment would reduce net income, which may have a material adverse effect on net income in the reported period. The current workers compensation contract with AIG expires on September 30, 2007. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member 38 Table of Contents insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with AIG, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. In conjunction with entering into the AIG Program, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 22. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Income Statement Data: Revenues (1) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 $ 890,859 $ 848,416 Gross profit 282,729 235,756 197,694 197,105 165,790 Operating income 61,565 43,767 22,131 24,274 67 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 46,506 29,983 19,210 14,985 (2,921 ) Net loss from discontinued operations (2,121 ) (1,160 ) Net income (loss) 46,506 29,983 19,210 12,864 (4,081 ) Diluted net income (loss) per share from continuing operations $ 1.64 $ 1.12 $ 0.72 $ 0.55 $ (0.11 ) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 128,401 $ 93,235 $ 47,500 $ 56,032 $ 41,238 Total assets 561,515 495,439 355,388 348,071 315,164 Total debt 1,749 34,890 36,539 42,362 44,169 Total stockholders equity 228,445 182,429 126,529 122,634 116,349 Cash dividends per share 0.36 0.28 Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month during period 100,675 88,780 77,936 75,036 77,334 Revenues per worksite employee per month (2) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 $ 1,037 $ 989 $ 914 Gross profit per worksite employee per month $ 234 $ 221 $ 211 $ 219 $ 179 Operating income per worksite employee per month $ 51 $ 41 $ 24 $ 27 $ (1) Gross billings of $8.055 billion, $6.633 billion, $5.377 billion, $4.829 billion, and $4.857 billion, less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion, $5.463 billion, $4.407 billion, $3.938 billion and $4.009 billion, respectively. (2) Gross billings of $6,667, $6,226, $5,749, $5,363 and $5,234 per worksite employee per month, less payroll cost of $5,517, $5,128, $4,712, $4,373 and $4,320 per worksite employee per month, respectively. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. The statements contained in this annual report that are not historical facts are forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements in this annual report could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Item 7 under Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38 and the uncertainties set forth from time to time in our other public reports and filings and public statements. Overview We provide a comprehensive Personnel Management System that encompasses a broad range of services, including benefits and payroll administration, health and workers compensation insurance programs, personnel records management, employer liability management, employee recruiting and selection, employee performance management, and employee training and development services. Our long term strategy continues to be aggregating the best small businesses in the United States on the common platform of our unique human resource service offering, thereby leveraging our buying power to provide additional valuable services to clients. Our overall operating results can be measured in terms of revenues, payroll costs, gross profit or operating income per worksite employee per month. We often use the number of worksite employees paid as our unit of measurement in analyzing and discussing our results of operations. Our key objective for 2006 was to continue to accelerate the growth in the number of paid worksite employees while appropriately pricing our service offering. We ended 2006 averaging 104,325 paid worksite employees in the fourth quarter, which represents a 10.9% increase over the fourth quarter of 2005. Our average number of worksite employees paid for the full year increased 13.4% over 2005. These increases were driven by improvements in sales and the net change in existing clients. Our 2006 average gross profit per worksite employee per month of $234 reflected the effective execution of our pricing strategy, including a slight increase in the markup related to our HR services, while managing our direct costs to better than expected levels. Lower than expected direct costs, particularly benefits costs and workers compensation costs, were primarily a result of the favorable trends in claims experience, complemented by lower administrative fees negotiated with our insurance carriers. Benefits costs per participant increased 5.7% over 2005, while workers compensation costs as a percentage of non bonus payroll declined by 15.6%. Operating expenses increased by 15.2% in 2006 to $221.2 million on a 13.4% increase in the number of worksite employees paid. Operating expenses increased due primarily to investments in sales and service personnel for the current and future growth of our business. On a per worksite employee per month basis, operating expenses increased from $180 in 2005 to $183 in 2006. Our net income increased 55.1% to $46.5 million in 2006 over 2005. We ended 2006 with working capital of $128.4 million, which is a $35.2 million increase from the end of 2005. Revenues We account for our revenues in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 99 19, Reporting Revenues Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent. Our gross billings to clients include the payroll cost of each worksite employee at the client location and a markup computed as a percentage of each worksite employees payroll cost. We invoice the gross billings concurrently with each periodic payroll of our worksite employees. Revenues, which exclude the payroll cost component of gross billings, and therefore, consist solely of the markup, are recognized ratably over the payroll period as worksite employees perform their service at the client worksite. 22 Table of Contents This markup includes pricing components associated with our estimates of payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs, plus a separate component related to our HR services. We include revenues that have been recognized but not invoiced in unbilled accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our revenues are primarily dependent on the number of clients enrolled, the resulting number of worksite employees paid each period and the number of worksite employees enrolled in our benefit plans. Because our markup is computed as a percentage of payroll cost, revenues are also affected by the payroll cost of worksite employees, which may fluctuate based on the composition of the worksite employee base, inflationary effects on wage levels and differences in the local economies of our markets. Direct Costs The primary direct costs associated with our revenue generating activities are: employment related taxes (payroll taxes); costs of employee benefit plans; and workers compensation costs. Payroll taxes consist of the employers portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes under FICA, federal unemployment taxes and state unemployment taxes. Payroll taxes are generally paid as a percentage of payroll cost. The federal tax rates are defined by federal regulations. State unemployment tax rates are subject to claim histories and vary from state to state. Employee benefits costs are comprised primarily of health insurance costs (including dental and pharmacy costs), but also include costs of other employee benefits such as life insurance, vision care, disability insurance, education assistance, adoption assistance, a flexible spending account and a worklife program. Workers compensation costs include administrative and risk charges paid to the insurance carrier, and claims costs, which are driven primarily by the frequency and severity of claims. Gross Profit Our gross profit per worksite employee is primarily determined by our ability to accurately estimate and control direct costs and our ability to incorporate changes in these costs into the gross billings charged to clients, which are subject to contractual arrangements that are typically renewed annually. We use gross profit per worksite employee per month as our principal measurement of relative performance at the gross profit level. Operating Expenses Salaries, wages and payroll taxes Salaries, wages and payroll taxes are primarily a function of the number of corporate employees and their associated average pay and any additional incentive compensation. Our corporate employees include client services, sales and marketing, benefits, legal, finance, information technology and administrative support personnel. Stock based compensation Our stock based compensation primarily relates to the recognition of non cash compensation expense over the vesting period of restricted stock awards. In 2005, the non cash expenses associated with the acceleration of stock option vesting were also included. 23 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses primarily include: rent expenses related to our service centers and sales offices; outside professional service fees related to legal, consulting and accounting services; administrative costs, such as postage, printing and supplies; employee travel expenses; and repairs and maintenance costs associated with our facilities and technology infrastructure. Commissions Commission expense consists of amounts paid to sales personnel. Commissions for sales personnel are based on a percentage of revenue generated by such personnel. Advertising Advertising expense primarily consists of media advertising and other business promotions in our current and anticipated sales markets, including the Administaff Small Business Classic sponsorship. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense is primarily a function of our capital investments in corporate facilities, service centers, sales offices and technology infrastructure. Income Taxes Administaffs provision for income taxes typically differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, due primarily to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant items resulting in deferred income taxes include prepaid assets, accruals for workers compensation expenses and depreciation. Changes in these items are reflected in our financial statements through a deferred income tax provision. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Administaffs discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to health and workers compensation insurance claims experience, state unemployment and payroll taxes, client bad debts, income taxes, property and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, and contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following accounting policies are critical and or require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements: Benefits costs We provide group health insurance coverage to our worksite employees through a national network of carriers including UnitedHealthcare (United), Cigna Healthcare, PacifiCare, Kaiser Permanente, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Shield of California, Hawaii Medical Service Association and Tufts, all of which provide fully insured policies or service contracts. The policy with United, which was first obtained in January 2002, provides the majority of our health insurance coverage. As a result of certain contractual terms, we have accounted for this plan since its inception using a partially self funded insurance accounting model. Accordingly, we record the costs of the United Plan, including an estimate of the incurred claims, taxes and administrative fees (collectively the Plan Costs), as benefits expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The estimated incurred claims are based upon: (i) the level of claims processed during the quarter; (ii) recent claim development patterns under the plan, to estimate a completion rate; and (iii) the number of participants in the plan. Each reporting period, changes in 24 Table of Contents the estimated ultimate costs resulting from claim trends, plan design and migration, participant demographics and other factors are incorporated into the benefits costs. Additionally, since the plans inception in January 2002, under the terms of the contract, United establishes cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. If the Plan Costs for a reporting quarter are greater than the cash funded to United, a deficit in the plan would be incurred and we would accrue a liability for the excess costs on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. On the other hand, if the Plan Costs for the reporting quarter are less than the cash funded to United, a surplus in the plan would be incurred and we would record an asset for the excess premiums on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The terms of the arrangement require us to maintain an accumulated cash surplus in the plan of $11 million, which is reported as long term prepaid insurance. As of December 31, 2006, Plan Costs were less than the net cash funded to United by $15.3 million. As this amount is in excess of the agreed upon $11 million surplus maintenance level, the $4.3 million balance is included in prepaid insurance, a current asset, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We believe the use of recent claims activity is representative of incurred and paid trends during the reporting period. The estimated completion rate used to compute incurred but not reported claims involves a significant level of judgment. Accordingly, an increase (or decrease) in the completion rates used to estimate the incurred claims would result in a decrease (or increase) in benefits costs and net income would increase (or decrease) accordingly. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the completion rates on our estimate of total benefit costs of $547.4 million in 2006: Change in Change in Change in Benefits Costs Net Income Completion Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (2.5)% $ (7,943 ) $ 5,123 (1.0)% (3,177 ) 2,049 1.0% 3,177 (2,049 ) 2.5% 7,943 (5,123 ) State unemployment taxes We record our state unemployment (SUI) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received. In December 2001, as a result of a 2001 corporate reorganization, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of our reserve account in May 2002, and notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of Administaffs subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million (Settlement). Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The Settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the 25 Table of Contents State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer and the matter proceeded with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. Workers compensation costs Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. Because we bear the economic burden of the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence, such claims, which are the primary component of our workers compensation costs, are recorded in the period incurred. Workers compensation insurance includes ongoing healthcare and indemnity coverage whereby claims are paid over numerous years following the date of injury. Accordingly, the accrual of related incurred costs in each reporting period includes estimates, which take into account the ongoing development of claims and therefore requires a significant level of judgment. Our management estimates our workers compensation costs by applying an aggregate loss development rate to worksite employee payroll levels. We employ a third party actuary to estimate our loss development rate, which is primarily based upon the nature of worksite employees job responsibilities, the location of worksite employees, the historical frequency and severity of workers compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. Each reporting period, changes in the actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into the Companys workers compensation claims cost estimates. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, Administaff reduced accrued workers compensation costs by $6.4 million and $4.6 million, respectively, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges related to prior reporting periods. Workers compensation cost estimates are discounted to present value at a rate based upon the U.S. Treasury rates that correspond with the weighted average estimated claim payout period (the average discount rate utilized in 2006 and 2005 was 4.8% and 3.9%, respectively) and are accreted over the estimated claim payment period and included as a component of direct costs in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our claim trends could be greater than or less than our prior estimates, in which case we would revise our claims estimates and record an adjustment to workers compensation costs in the period such determination is made. If we were to experience any significant changes in actuarial assumptions, our loss development rates could increase (or decrease) which would result in an increase (or decrease) in workers compensation costs and a resulting decrease (or increase) in net income reported in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the loss development rate on our estimate of workers compensation costs totaling $55.7 million in 2006: Change in Workers Change in Change in Loss Compensation Costs Net Income Development Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (5)% $ (2,241 ) $ 1,446 (2.5)% (1,121 ) 723 2.5% 1,121 (723 ) 5% 2,241 (1,446 ) At the beginning of each policy period, the insurance carrier, AIG, establishes monthly funding requirements comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). The level 26 Table of Contents of claim funds is primarily based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and expected workers compensation loss rates, as determined by AIG. Monies funded into the program for incurred claims expected to be paid within one year are recorded as restricted cash, a short term asset, while the remainder of claim funds are included in deposits, a long term asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid within one year are recorded as accrued workers compensation costs and included in short term liabilities, while our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid beyond one year are included in long term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2006, we had restricted cash of $37.4 million and deposits of $46.4 million. We have estimated and accrued $77.4 million in incurred workers compensation claim costs, as of December 31, 2006. Contingent liabilities We accrue and disclose contingent liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. SFAS No. 5 requires accrual of contingent liabilities that are considered probable to occur and that can be reasonably estimated. For contingent liabilities that are considered reasonably possible to occur, financial statement disclosure is required, including the range of possible loss if it can be reasonably determined. We have disclosed in our audited financial statements several issues that we believe are reasonably possible to occur, although we cannot determine the range of possible loss in all cases. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As these issues develop, we will continue to evaluate the probability of future loss and the potential range of such losses. If such evaluation were to determine that a loss was probable and the loss could be reasonably estimated, we would be required to accrue our estimated loss, which would reduce net income in the period that such determination was made. Deferred taxes We have recorded a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, our ability to realize our deferred tax assets could change from our current estimates. If we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to reduce the valuation allowance would increase net income in the period that such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to increase the valuation allowance would reduce net income in the period such determination is made. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to pay their comprehensive service fees. We believe that the success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to collect these comprehensive service fees for several reasons, including: the fact that we are at risk for the payment of our direct costs and worksite employee payroll costs regardless of whether our clients pay their comprehensive service fees; the large volume and dollar amount of transactions we process; and the periodic and recurring nature of payroll, upon which the comprehensive service fees are based. To mitigate this risk, we have established very tight credit policies. We generally require our clients to pay their comprehensive service fees no later than one day prior to the applicable payroll date. In addition, we maintain the right to terminate the Client Service Agreement and associated worksite employees or to require prepayment, letters of credit or other collateral if a clients financial position deteriorates or if the client does not pay the comprehensive service fee. As a result of these efforts, losses related to customer nonpayment have historically been low as a percentage of revenues. However, if our clients financial condition were to deteriorate rapidly, resulting in nonpayment, our accounts receivable balances could grow and we could be required to provide for additional allowances, which would decrease net income in the period that such determination was made. 27 Table of Contents Property and equipment Our property and equipment relate primarily to our facilities and related improvements, furniture and fixtures, computer hardware and software and capitalized software development costs. These costs are depreciated or amortized over the estimated useful lives of the assets. If we determine that the useful lives of these assets will be shorter than we currently estimate, our depreciation and amortization expense could be accelerated, which would decrease net income in the periods of such a determination. In addition, we periodically evaluate these costs for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. If events or circumstances were to indicate that any of our long lived assets might be impaired, we would analyze the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the applicable asset. In addition, we would record an impairment loss, which would reduce net income, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeded the fair value of the asset. Fair value is generally determined using an estimate of discounted future net cash flows from operating activities or upon disposal of the asset. Goodwill and other intangibles The December 2005 acquisition of HRTools.com and associated software applications included certain identifiable intangible assets and goodwill implied in the purchase price. The goodwill and intangible assets are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Our purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, five to ten years. New Accounting Pronouncements In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 requires that a position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return be recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e. a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, the cumulative effect of applying the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 48, if any, shall be reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of FIN 48 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, FASB Statement 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157) was issued. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by providing a standard definition of fair value as it applies to assets and liabilities. SFAS 157, which does not require any new fair value measurements, clarifies the application of other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $8.055 billion and $6.633 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion and $5.463 billion, respectively) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % Gross profit 282,729 235,756 19.9 % Operating expenses 221,164 191,989 15.2 % Operating income 61,565 43,767 40.7 % Other income (expense) 10,517 3,980 164.2 % Net income 46,506 29,983 55.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.64 1.12 46.4 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 100,675 88,780 13.4 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 4.7 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 234 221 5.9 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 183 180 1.7 % Operating income per worksite employee per month 51 41 24.4 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 38 28 35.7 % (1) Gross billings of $6,667 and $6,226 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,517 and $5,128 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 18.8% over 2005 due to a 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 4.7%, or $52, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 4.7% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. By region, our revenue growth over 2005 and revenue distribution for years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 243,224 $ 177,466 37.1 % 17.5 % 15.1 % Southeast 129,803 101,785 27.5 % 9.3 % 8.7 % Central 193,787 153,477 26.3 % 14.0 % 13.1 % Southwest 503,498 458,196 9.9 % 36.3 % 39.2 % West 308,984 271,018 14.0 % 22.2 % 23.2 % Other revenues 10,168 7,670 32.6 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 29 Table of Contents Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. During 2006, the 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month resulted from improvements in new client sales and the net change in existing clients, while client retention, measured as a percentage of the worksite employee base, declined as compared to 2005. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.9% to $282.7 million compared to 2005. The average gross profit per worksite employee increased 5.9% to $234 per month in 2006 versus $221 in 2005. Our pricing objectives attempt to maintain or improve the gross profit per worksite employee by increasing revenue per worksite employee to match or exceed changes in primary direct costs and operating expenses. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 4.7%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 4.4% to $916 per worksite employee per month in 2006 versus $877 in 2005. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $18 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005, due to a 7.6% increase in average payroll cost per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost decreased from 7.46% in 2005 to 7.27% in 2006. The 2006 amount includes a $3.3 million payroll tax reduction, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to the California state unemployment tax matter. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of group health insurance and related employee benefits increased $26 per worksite employee per month to $453 compared to 2005. This increase is due to a 5.7% increase in the cost per covered employee and a slight increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.7% in 2005 versus 72.4% in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $5 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 0.92% in 2006 from 1.09% in 2005, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. During 2006, the Company recorded reductions in workers compensation costs of $6.4 million, or 0.11% of non bonus payroll costs, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges, compared to $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 119,963 $ 99,562 20.5 % $ 99 $ 93 6.5 % Stock based compensation 3,411 2,079 64.1 % 3 2 50.0 % General and administrative expenses 57,409 52,960 8.4 % 48 50 (4.0 )% Commissions 10,968 10,121 8.4 % 9 10 (10.0 )% Advertising 13,975 12,100 15.5 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,438 15,167 1.8 % 13 14 (7.1 )% Total operating expenses $ 221,164 $ 191,989 15.2 % $ 183 $ 180 1.7 % Operating expenses increased 15.2% to $221.2 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month increased 1.7% to $183 in 2006 versus $180 in 2005. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 20.5%, or $6 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. During 2006, the number of corporate employees increased 16.6%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 4.2% as compared to 2005. Stock based compensation increased 64.1%, or $1 per worksite employee per month. Stock based compensation expense primarily represents the vesting of restricted stock awards. The 2006 expense also includes $280,000 related to the annual stock grant made to the independent members of the Board of Directors. The 2005 amount includes $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 8.4% due primarily to higher expenses associated with the increase in corporate and worksite employee headcount, such as travel, postage and rent. General and administrative expenses decreased $2 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Commissions expense increased 8.4%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Advertising costs increased 15.5%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2006 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2005. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 1.8%, but declined $1 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2005. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) increased to $10.5 million in 2006 compared to $4.0 million in 2005. Interest income increased by $4.8 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program, and higher interest rates in 2006. Interest expense decreased $1.2 million as compared to 2005, due to the repayment of the $32.3 million outstanding variable rate mortgage on our corporate headquarters in May 2006. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2006 we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $25.6 million on pre tax income of $72.1 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses, offset by tax exempt interest income. Our effective income tax rate was 35.5% in the 2006 period compared to 37.2% in the 2005 period. Net Income Net income for 2006 was $46.5 million, or $1.64 per diluted share, compared to $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share in 2005. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 35.7% to $38 in 2006 versus $28 in 2005. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $6.633 billion and $5.377 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $5.463 billion and $4.407 billion, respectively) $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % Gross profit 235,756 197,694 19.3 % Operating expenses 191,989 175,563 9.4 % Operating income 43,767 22,131 97.8 % Other income (expense) 3,980 8,605 (53.7 )% Net income 29,983 19,210 56.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.12 0.72 55.6 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 88,780 77,936 13.9 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,098 $ 1,037 5.9 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 221 211 4.7 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 180 188 (4.3 )% Operating income per worksite employee per month 41 24 70.8 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 28 21 33.3 % (1) Gross billings of $6,226 and $5,749 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,128 and $4,712 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 20.6% over 2004 due to a 13.9% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 5.9%, or $61, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 5.9% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. The 13.9% increase in the average 32 Table of Contents number of worksite employees paid per month during 2005 resulted from increases in all three sources of paid worksite employees. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys revenues by region for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 177,466 $ 134,124 32.3 % 15.1 % 13.8 % Southeast 101,785 90,657 12.3 % 8.7 % 9.4 % Central 153,477 137,184 11.9 % 13.1 % 14.1 % Southwest 458,196 378,901 20.9 % 39.2 % 39.1 % West 271,018 222,209 22.0 % 23.2 % 22.9 % Other revenues 7,670 6,452 18.9 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.3% to $235.8 million compared to 2004. Gross profit per worksite employee increased 4.7% to $221 per month in 2005 versus $211 in 2004. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 5.9%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 6.2% to $877 per worksite employee per month in 2005 versus $826 in 2004. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $34 per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost were 7.46% in 2005. This compares to 7.41% in 2004 which included a $2.3 million payroll tax credit, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to a state unemployment matter with the state of California. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of health insurance and related employee benefits increased $23 per worksite employee per month to $427 compared to 2004. This increase is due to a 3.9% increase in the cost per covered employee and an increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.4% in 2005 versus 71.1% in 2004. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $7 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 1.09% in 2005 from 1.35% in 2004, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. These trends resulted in reductions in estimated accrued workers compensation costs related to prior reporting periods of $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs, in the 2005 period. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 99,562 $ 88,298 12.8 % $ 93 $ 94 (1.1 )% Stock based compensation 2,079 2 General and administrative expenses 52,960 49,283 7.5 % 50 53 (5.7 )% Commissions 10,121 10,447 (3.1 )% 10 11 (9.1 )% Advertising 12,100 10,021 20.7 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,167 17,514 (13.4 )% 14 19 (26.3 )% Total operating expenses $ 191,989 $ 175,563 9.4 % $ 180 $ 188 (4.3 )% Operating expenses increased 9.4% to $192.0 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month decreased 4.3% to $180 in 2005 versus $188 in 2004. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 12.8%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. During 2005, incentive compensation increased $6.1 million over 2004 due to the improved operating results. In addition, the number of corporate employees increased 3.1%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 3.4%. Stock based compensation expense of $2.1 million or $2 per worksite employee per month was a result of: (i) $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting during the first quarter of 2005; and (ii) $1,289,000 related to the amortization of deferred compensation expense associated with the February 2005 restricted stock grant. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 7.5%, but declined $3 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. The increase in total dollars is primarily due to increases in: (i) repairs and maintenance; and (ii) professional fees such as consulting fees, accounting fees and recruiting costs. Commissions expense decreased 3.1% or $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004, as an increase in commissions paid to sales personnel was more than offset by cost savings resulting from the termination of our marketing and commission arrangement with American Express in December 2004. Advertising costs increased 20.7%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2005 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2004. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 13.4% and $5 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2004 as the effect of certain fixed assets becoming fully amortized more than offset the incremental depreciation and amortization expense related to the 2005 capital additions. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased to $4.0 million in 2005 compared to $8.6 million in 2004, primarily due to the $8.25 million settlement of our dispute with Aetna during the 2004 period. Interest income increased by $4.1 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program and higher interest rates in 2005. 34 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2005, we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $17.8 million on pre tax income of $47.7 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Our effective income tax rate was 37.2% in the 2005 period compared to 37.5% in the 2004 period. Net Income Net income for 2005 was $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, compared to $19.2 million, or $0.72 per diluted share in 2004. Net income for 2004 included $5.2 million or $0.19 per share of proceeds related to the settlement of our dispute with Aetna. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 33.3% to $28 in 2005 versus $21 in 2004. Non GAAP Financial Measures Non bonus payroll cost is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of bonus payrolls paid to our worksite employees. Bonus payroll cost varies from period to period, but has no direct impact to our ultimate workers compensation costs under the current program. As a result, our management refers to non bonus payroll cost in analyzing, reporting and forecasting our workers compensation costs. Non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and may be different from non GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We include these non GAAP financial measures because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency related to the costs incurred under our current workers compensation program. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non GAAP financial measures used to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the table below. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Change (in thousands, except per worksite employee) GAAP to non GAAP reconciliation: Payroll cost (GAAP) $ 6,665,532 $ 5,463,474 22.0 % Less: bonus payroll cost 640,552 508,170 26.1 % Non Bonus payroll cost $ 6,024,980 $ 4,955,304 21.6 % Payroll cost per worksite employee (GAAP) $ 5,517 $ 5,128 7.6 % Less: Bonus payroll cost per worksite employee 530 477 11.1 % Non bonus payroll cost per worksite employee $ 4,987 $ 4,651 7.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources We periodically evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our expansion plans, debt service requirements and other operating cash needs. To meet short and long term liquidity requirements, including payment of direct and operating expenses and repaying debt, we rely primarily on cash from operations. However, we have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to raise additional capital or take other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. We had $234.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2006, of which approximately $105.3 million was payable in early January 2007 for withheld federal and state income taxes, employment taxes and other payroll deductions. At December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $128.4 million compared to $93.2 million at December 31, 2005. We currently believe that our cash on hand, marketable securities and cash flows 35 Table of Contents from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements for 2007. We will rely on these same sources, as well as public and private debt or equity financing, to meet our longer term liquidity and capital needs. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities in 2006 of $88.5 million reflected a decrease of $23.2 million from 2005. Our primary source of cash from operations is the comprehensive service fee and payroll funding we collect from our clients. The level of cash and cash equivalents, and thus our reported cash flows from operating activities are significantly impacted by various external and internal factors, which are reflected in part by the changes in our balance sheet accounts. These include the following: Timing of customer payments / payrolls We typically collect our comprehensive service fee, along with the clients payroll funding, from clients at least one day prior to the payment of worksite employee payrolls and associated payroll taxes. Therefore, the last business day of a reporting period has a substantial impact on our reporting of operating cash flows. For example, many worksite employees are paid on Fridays; therefore, operating cash flows decline in the reporting periods that end on a Friday, such as December 2006, when client prepayments were $9.1 million and accrued worksite employee payroll was $94.8 million. However, for those reporting periods that end on a Thursday, our cash flows are higher due to the collection of the comprehensive service fee and clients payroll funding prior to processing the large number worksite employees payrolls one day subsequent to the period end. Classification of tax benefit from stock based compensation In 2006, we adopted Statement 123(R), which requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation cost. In addition, Statement 123(R) requires the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation to be reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to 2006, we reported the tax benefit as a component of operating cash flows, which was $12.8 million in 2005. Operating results Our net income has a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Our net income increased to $46.5 million in 2006 from $30.0 million in 2005. Please read Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 on page 29. Medical plan funding Our healthcare contract with United establishes participant cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. Therefore, changes in the participation level of the United Plan have a direct impact on our operating cash flows. In addition, changes to the funding rates, which are solely determined by United based primarily upon recent claim history and anticipated cost trends, also have a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Since inception of the United Plan in January 2002, cash funded to United has exceeded Plan Costs, resulting in a $15.3 million surplus, $4.3 million of which is reflected as a current asset, and $11.0 million of which is reflected as a long term asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006. Additionally, the $17.5 million in long term deposits was returned to Administaff during 2005. Workers compensation plan funding Under our arrangement with AIG, we make monthly payments to AIG comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). These pre determined amounts are stipulated in our agreement with AIG, and are based primarily on anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates during the policy year. Changes in payroll levels from that which was anticipated in the arrangement with AIG can result in changes in the amount of the cash payments to AIG, which will impact our reporting of operating cash flows. Our claim funds paid to AIG, based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates, were $47.4 million, less claims paid of $20.7 million in 2006, and $50.0 million, less claims paid of $17.2 million for the 2005 period. This compares to our estimate of workers compensation loss costs of $37.8 million and $36.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, AIG returned $29.7 million and $22.8 million, respectively, to Administaff for the return of excess funding related to prior policy periods. 36 Table of Contents Cash Flows From Investing Activities Our cash flows used in investing activities of $40.4 million reflected a decrease of $25.1 million from 2005. During 2006, we invested $27.6 million in marketable securities and $12.9 million in capital expenditures, primarily computer hardware and software to enhance the performance and stability of our technology infrastructure. We expect approximately $15 million in capital expenditures in 2007. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $37.1 million during 2006, an increase of $46.5 million over 2005. In May 2006, we paid the remaining balance of $32.3 million on our variable rate mortgage prior to its maturity date of January 2008. Please read Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 22 for additional information. Additionally, we repurchased $24.2 million in treasury stock and paid $10.0 million in dividends, offset by the receipt of $16.8 million in stock option exercise proceeds and $12.7 million in income tax benefit from stock based compensation. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006 and the effect they are expected to have on our liquidity and capital resources (in thousands): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Contractual obligations: Capital lease obligations $ 1,749 $ 583 $ 1,166 $ $ Non cancelable operating leases 42,409 9,685 14,632 10,120 7,972 Purchase obligations (1) 14,512 6,933 6,709 380 490 Other long term liabilities Accrued workers compensation claim costs (2) 77,424 35,840 18,198 15,797 7,589 Total contractual cash obligations $ 136,094 $ 53,041 $ 40,705 $ 26,297 $ 16,051 (1) The table includes purchase obligations associated with non cancelable contracts individually greater than $100,000 and one year. (2) Accrued workers compensation claim costs include the short and long term amounts. For more information, please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. Seasonality, Inflation and Quarterly Fluctuations We believe the effects of inflation have not had a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll and Benefits Costs Under the CSA, we become a co employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for: payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Premiums Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2007, and automatically renews each year, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. Health insurance premiums are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. We employ extensive risk management procedures in an attempt to control our claims incidence and structure our benefits contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible. However, if we experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in claim activity, our health insurance costs could increase. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24. Increases in Workers Compensation Costs In 2003, facing continued capital constraints and a series of downgrades from various rating agencies, our former workers compensation insurance carrier for the two year period ending September 2003, Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company, a unit of Kemper Insurance Companies (Kemper), made the decision to substantially cease underwriting operations and voluntarily entered into run off. A run off is the professional management of an insurance companys discontinued, distressed or nonrenewed lines of insurance and associated liabilities outside of a judicial proceeding. In the event the run off process is not successful and Kemper is forced into bankruptcy or a similar proceeding, most states have established guaranty funds to pay remaining claims. However, the guarantee associations in some states, including Texas, have asserted that state law returns the liability for open claims under such policies to the insured, as we experienced when another former insurance carrier, Reliance National Indemnity Co., declared bankruptcy in 2001. In that case, the Texas state guaranty association asserted that it was entitled to full reimbursement from us for workers compensation benefits paid by the association. Although we settled that dispute within the limits of insurance coverage we had secured to cover potential claims returned to us related to the Reliance policies, if one or more states were to assert that liability for open claims with Kemper should be returned to us, we may be required to make a payment to the state covering estimated claims attributable to us. Any such payment would reduce net income, which may have a material adverse effect on net income in the reported period. The current workers compensation contract with AIG expires on September 30, 2007. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member 38 Table of Contents insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with AIG, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. In conjunction with entering into the AIG Program, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. The statements contained in this annual report that are not historical facts are forward looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements in this annual report could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Item 7 under Factors that May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock on page 38 and the uncertainties set forth from time to time in our other public reports and filings and public statements. Overview We provide a comprehensive Personnel Management System that encompasses a broad range of services, including benefits and payroll administration, health and workers compensation insurance programs, personnel records management, employer liability management, employee recruiting and selection, employee performance management, and employee training and development services. Our long term strategy continues to be aggregating the best small businesses in the United States on the common platform of our unique human resource service offering, thereby leveraging our buying power to provide additional valuable services to clients. Our overall operating results can be measured in terms of revenues, payroll costs, gross profit or operating income per worksite employee per month. We often use the number of worksite employees paid as our unit of measurement in analyzing and discussing our results of operations. Our key objective for 2006 was to continue to accelerate the growth in the number of paid worksite employees while appropriately pricing our service offering. We ended 2006 averaging 104,325 paid worksite employees in the fourth quarter, which represents a 10.9% increase over the fourth quarter of 2005. Our average number of worksite employees paid for the full year increased 13.4% over 2005. These increases were driven by improvements in sales and the net change in existing clients. Our 2006 average gross profit per worksite employee per month of $234 reflected the effective execution of our pricing strategy, including a slight increase in the markup related to our HR services, while managing our direct costs to better than expected levels. Lower than expected direct costs, particularly benefits costs and workers compensation costs, were primarily a result of the favorable trends in claims experience, complemented by lower administrative fees negotiated with our insurance carriers. Benefits costs per participant increased 5.7% over 2005, while workers compensation costs as a percentage of non bonus payroll declined by 15.6%. Operating expenses increased by 15.2% in 2006 to $221.2 million on a 13.4% increase in the number of worksite employees paid. Operating expenses increased due primarily to investments in sales and service personnel for the current and future growth of our business. On a per worksite employee per month basis, operating expenses increased from $180 in 2005 to $183 in 2006. Our net income increased 55.1% to $46.5 million in 2006 over 2005. We ended 2006 with working capital of $128.4 million, which is a $35.2 million increase from the end of 2005. Revenues We account for our revenues in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 99 19, Reporting Revenues Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent. Our gross billings to clients include the payroll cost of each worksite employee at the client location and a markup computed as a percentage of each worksite employees payroll cost. We invoice the gross billings concurrently with each periodic payroll of our worksite employees. Revenues, which exclude the payroll cost component of gross billings, and therefore, consist solely of the markup, are recognized ratably over the payroll period as worksite employees perform their service at the client worksite. 22 Table of Contents This markup includes pricing components associated with our estimates of payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs, plus a separate component related to our HR services. We include revenues that have been recognized but not invoiced in unbilled accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our revenues are primarily dependent on the number of clients enrolled, the resulting number of worksite employees paid each period and the number of worksite employees enrolled in our benefit plans. Because our markup is computed as a percentage of payroll cost, revenues are also affected by the payroll cost of worksite employees, which may fluctuate based on the composition of the worksite employee base, inflationary effects on wage levels and differences in the local economies of our markets. Direct Costs The primary direct costs associated with our revenue generating activities are: employment related taxes (payroll taxes); costs of employee benefit plans; and workers compensation costs. Payroll taxes consist of the employers portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes under FICA, federal unemployment taxes and state unemployment taxes. Payroll taxes are generally paid as a percentage of payroll cost. The federal tax rates are defined by federal regulations. State unemployment tax rates are subject to claim histories and vary from state to state. Employee benefits costs are comprised primarily of health insurance costs (including dental and pharmacy costs), but also include costs of other employee benefits such as life insurance, vision care, disability insurance, education assistance, adoption assistance, a flexible spending account and a worklife program. Workers compensation costs include administrative and risk charges paid to the insurance carrier, and claims costs, which are driven primarily by the frequency and severity of claims. Gross Profit Our gross profit per worksite employee is primarily determined by our ability to accurately estimate and control direct costs and our ability to incorporate changes in these costs into the gross billings charged to clients, which are subject to contractual arrangements that are typically renewed annually. We use gross profit per worksite employee per month as our principal measurement of relative performance at the gross profit level. Operating Expenses Salaries, wages and payroll taxes Salaries, wages and payroll taxes are primarily a function of the number of corporate employees and their associated average pay and any additional incentive compensation. Our corporate employees include client services, sales and marketing, benefits, legal, finance, information technology and administrative support personnel. Stock based compensation Our stock based compensation primarily relates to the recognition of non cash compensation expense over the vesting period of restricted stock awards. In 2005, the non cash expenses associated with the acceleration of stock option vesting were also included. 23 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses primarily include: rent expenses related to our service centers and sales offices; outside professional service fees related to legal, consulting and accounting services; administrative costs, such as postage, printing and supplies; employee travel expenses; and repairs and maintenance costs associated with our facilities and technology infrastructure. Commissions Commission expense consists of amounts paid to sales personnel. Commissions for sales personnel are based on a percentage of revenue generated by such personnel. Advertising Advertising expense primarily consists of media advertising and other business promotions in our current and anticipated sales markets, including the Administaff Small Business Classic sponsorship. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense is primarily a function of our capital investments in corporate facilities, service centers, sales offices and technology infrastructure. Income Taxes Administaffs provision for income taxes typically differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, due primarily to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant items resulting in deferred income taxes include prepaid assets, accruals for workers compensation expenses and depreciation. Changes in these items are reflected in our financial statements through a deferred income tax provision. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Administaffs discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to health and workers compensation insurance claims experience, state unemployment and payroll taxes, client bad debts, income taxes, property and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, and contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following accounting policies are critical and or require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements: Benefits costs We provide group health insurance coverage to our worksite employees through a national network of carriers including UnitedHealthcare (United), Cigna Healthcare, PacifiCare, Kaiser Permanente, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Shield of California, Hawaii Medical Service Association and Tufts, all of which provide fully insured policies or service contracts. The policy with United, which was first obtained in January 2002, provides the majority of our health insurance coverage. As a result of certain contractual terms, we have accounted for this plan since its inception using a partially self funded insurance accounting model. Accordingly, we record the costs of the United Plan, including an estimate of the incurred claims, taxes and administrative fees (collectively the Plan Costs), as benefits expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The estimated incurred claims are based upon: (i) the level of claims processed during the quarter; (ii) recent claim development patterns under the plan, to estimate a completion rate; and (iii) the number of participants in the plan. Each reporting period, changes in 24 Table of Contents the estimated ultimate costs resulting from claim trends, plan design and migration, participant demographics and other factors are incorporated into the benefits costs. Additionally, since the plans inception in January 2002, under the terms of the contract, United establishes cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. If the Plan Costs for a reporting quarter are greater than the cash funded to United, a deficit in the plan would be incurred and we would accrue a liability for the excess costs on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. On the other hand, if the Plan Costs for the reporting quarter are less than the cash funded to United, a surplus in the plan would be incurred and we would record an asset for the excess premiums on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The terms of the arrangement require us to maintain an accumulated cash surplus in the plan of $11 million, which is reported as long term prepaid insurance. As of December 31, 2006, Plan Costs were less than the net cash funded to United by $15.3 million. As this amount is in excess of the agreed upon $11 million surplus maintenance level, the $4.3 million balance is included in prepaid insurance, a current asset, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We believe the use of recent claims activity is representative of incurred and paid trends during the reporting period. The estimated completion rate used to compute incurred but not reported claims involves a significant level of judgment. Accordingly, an increase (or decrease) in the completion rates used to estimate the incurred claims would result in a decrease (or increase) in benefits costs and net income would increase (or decrease) accordingly. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the completion rates on our estimate of total benefit costs of $547.4 million in 2006: Change in Change in Change in Benefits Costs Net Income Completion Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (2.5)% $ (7,943 ) $ 5,123 (1.0)% (3,177 ) 2,049 1.0% 3,177 (2,049 ) 2.5% 7,943 (5,123 ) State unemployment taxes We record our state unemployment (SUI) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received. In December 2001, as a result of a 2001 corporate reorganization, we filed for a transfer of our reserve account with the Employment Development Department of the State of California (EDD). The EDD approved our request for transfer of our reserve account in May 2002, and notified us of our new contribution rates based upon the approved transfer. In December 2003, we received a Notice of Duplicate Accounts and Notification of Assessment (Notice) from the EDD. The Notice stated that the EDD was collapsing the accounts of Administaffs subsidiaries into the account of the entity with the highest unemployment tax rate. The Notice also retroactively imposed the higher unemployment insurance rate on all our California employees for 2003, resulting in an assessment of $5.6 million. In January 2004, we filed a petition with an administrative law judge of the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (ALJ) to protest the validity of the Notice. Pending a resolution of our protest, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we accrued and recorded at the higher assessed rate for all of 2003. In June 2004, we agreed to settle our dispute with the EDD for $3.3 million (Settlement). Based upon receipt of written acknowledgement of this agreement, we reduced our accrued payroll tax liability and payroll tax expense by $2.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The Settlement was subject to the final approval by EDDs legal department, the California Attorney Generals office and the ALJ. In October 2004, the legal department of the EDD verbally indicated they considered the previously agreed upon settlement amount to be insufficient and suggested a settlement amount of $5.2 million. We continued discussions with the 25 Table of Contents State of California, but in February 2005, we were notified that the EDD had rejected our settlement offer and the matter proceeded with the appeals process with the ALJ. As of October 31, 2006, all of the statutes of limitations concerning notices to modify unemployment tax rates for the periods addressed in the Notice had expired. We believe the EDD failed to meet the statutory requirement related to serving a proper notice within the stipulated time frame; therefore, we believe it is no longer probable that the amount accrued for the California unemployment tax matter will be incurred. Accordingly, we reduced the state unemployment tax accrual by $3.3 million during 2006. Workers compensation costs Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. Because we bear the economic burden of the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence, such claims, which are the primary component of our workers compensation costs, are recorded in the period incurred. Workers compensation insurance includes ongoing healthcare and indemnity coverage whereby claims are paid over numerous years following the date of injury. Accordingly, the accrual of related incurred costs in each reporting period includes estimates, which take into account the ongoing development of claims and therefore requires a significant level of judgment. Our management estimates our workers compensation costs by applying an aggregate loss development rate to worksite employee payroll levels. We employ a third party actuary to estimate our loss development rate, which is primarily based upon the nature of worksite employees job responsibilities, the location of worksite employees, the historical frequency and severity of workers compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. Each reporting period, changes in the actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into the Companys workers compensation claims cost estimates. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, Administaff reduced accrued workers compensation costs by $6.4 million and $4.6 million, respectively, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges related to prior reporting periods. Workers compensation cost estimates are discounted to present value at a rate based upon the U.S. Treasury rates that correspond with the weighted average estimated claim payout period (the average discount rate utilized in 2006 and 2005 was 4.8% and 3.9%, respectively) and are accreted over the estimated claim payment period and included as a component of direct costs in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our claim trends could be greater than or less than our prior estimates, in which case we would revise our claims estimates and record an adjustment to workers compensation costs in the period such determination is made. If we were to experience any significant changes in actuarial assumptions, our loss development rates could increase (or decrease) which would result in an increase (or decrease) in workers compensation costs and a resulting decrease (or increase) in net income reported in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of changes in the loss development rate on our estimate of workers compensation costs totaling $55.7 million in 2006: Change in Workers Change in Change in Loss Compensation Costs Net Income Development Rate (in thousands) (in thousands) (5)% $ (2,241 ) $ 1,446 (2.5)% (1,121 ) 723 2.5% 1,121 (723 ) 5% 2,241 (1,446 ) At the beginning of each policy period, the insurance carrier, AIG, establishes monthly funding requirements comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). The level 26 Table of Contents of claim funds is primarily based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and expected workers compensation loss rates, as determined by AIG. Monies funded into the program for incurred claims expected to be paid within one year are recorded as restricted cash, a short term asset, while the remainder of claim funds are included in deposits, a long term asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid within one year are recorded as accrued workers compensation costs and included in short term liabilities, while our estimate of incurred claim costs expected to be paid beyond one year are included in long term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2006, we had restricted cash of $37.4 million and deposits of $46.4 million. We have estimated and accrued $77.4 million in incurred workers compensation claim costs, as of December 31, 2006. Contingent liabilities We accrue and disclose contingent liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. SFAS No. 5 requires accrual of contingent liabilities that are considered probable to occur and that can be reasonably estimated. For contingent liabilities that are considered reasonably possible to occur, financial statement disclosure is required, including the range of possible loss if it can be reasonably determined. We have disclosed in our audited financial statements several issues that we believe are reasonably possible to occur, although we cannot determine the range of possible loss in all cases. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As these issues develop, we will continue to evaluate the probability of future loss and the potential range of such losses. If such evaluation were to determine that a loss was probable and the loss could be reasonably estimated, we would be required to accrue our estimated loss, which would reduce net income in the period that such determination was made. Deferred taxes We have recorded a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, our ability to realize our deferred tax assets could change from our current estimates. If we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to reduce the valuation allowance would increase net income in the period that such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to increase the valuation allowance would reduce net income in the period such determination is made. Allowance for doubtful accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to pay their comprehensive service fees. We believe that the success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to collect these comprehensive service fees for several reasons, including: the fact that we are at risk for the payment of our direct costs and worksite employee payroll costs regardless of whether our clients pay their comprehensive service fees; the large volume and dollar amount of transactions we process; and the periodic and recurring nature of payroll, upon which the comprehensive service fees are based. To mitigate this risk, we have established very tight credit policies. We generally require our clients to pay their comprehensive service fees no later than one day prior to the applicable payroll date. In addition, we maintain the right to terminate the Client Service Agreement and associated worksite employees or to require prepayment, letters of credit or other collateral if a clients financial position deteriorates or if the client does not pay the comprehensive service fee. As a result of these efforts, losses related to customer nonpayment have historically been low as a percentage of revenues. However, if our clients financial condition were to deteriorate rapidly, resulting in nonpayment, our accounts receivable balances could grow and we could be required to provide for additional allowances, which would decrease net income in the period that such determination was made. 27 Table of Contents Property and equipment Our property and equipment relate primarily to our facilities and related improvements, furniture and fixtures, computer hardware and software and capitalized software development costs. These costs are depreciated or amortized over the estimated useful lives of the assets. If we determine that the useful lives of these assets will be shorter than we currently estimate, our depreciation and amortization expense could be accelerated, which would decrease net income in the periods of such a determination. In addition, we periodically evaluate these costs for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. If events or circumstances were to indicate that any of our long lived assets might be impaired, we would analyze the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the applicable asset. In addition, we would record an impairment loss, which would reduce net income, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeded the fair value of the asset. Fair value is generally determined using an estimate of discounted future net cash flows from operating activities or upon disposal of the asset. Goodwill and other intangibles The December 2005 acquisition of HRTools.com and associated software applications included certain identifiable intangible assets and goodwill implied in the purchase price. The goodwill and intangible assets are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Our purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, five to ten years. New Accounting Pronouncements In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 requires that a position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return be recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e. a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, the cumulative effect of applying the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 48, if any, shall be reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of FIN 48 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, FASB Statement 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157) was issued. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by providing a standard definition of fair value as it applies to assets and liabilities. SFAS 157, which does not require any new fair value measurements, clarifies the application of other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The effective date for the Company is January 1, 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $8.055 billion and $6.633 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $6.666 billion and $5.463 billion, respectively) $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % Gross profit 282,729 235,756 19.9 % Operating expenses 221,164 191,989 15.2 % Operating income 61,565 43,767 40.7 % Other income (expense) 10,517 3,980 164.2 % Net income 46,506 29,983 55.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.64 1.12 46.4 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 100,675 88,780 13.4 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,150 $ 1,098 4.7 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 234 221 5.9 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 183 180 1.7 % Operating income per worksite employee per month 51 41 24.4 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 38 28 35.7 % (1) Gross billings of $6,667 and $6,226 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,517 and $5,128 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 18.8% over 2005 due to a 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 4.7%, or $52, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 4.7% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. By region, our revenue growth over 2005 and revenue distribution for years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 243,224 $ 177,466 37.1 % 17.5 % 15.1 % Southeast 129,803 101,785 27.5 % 9.3 % 8.7 % Central 193,787 153,477 26.3 % 14.0 % 13.1 % Southwest 503,498 458,196 9.9 % 36.3 % 39.2 % West 308,984 271,018 14.0 % 22.2 % 23.2 % Other revenues 10,168 7,670 32.6 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,389,464 $ 1,169,612 18.8 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 29 Table of Contents Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. During 2006, the 13.4% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month resulted from improvements in new client sales and the net change in existing clients, while client retention, measured as a percentage of the worksite employee base, declined as compared to 2005. Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.9% to $282.7 million compared to 2005. The average gross profit per worksite employee increased 5.9% to $234 per month in 2006 versus $221 in 2005. Our pricing objectives attempt to maintain or improve the gross profit per worksite employee by increasing revenue per worksite employee to match or exceed changes in primary direct costs and operating expenses. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 4.7%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 4.4% to $916 per worksite employee per month in 2006 versus $877 in 2005. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $18 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005, due to a 7.6% increase in average payroll cost per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost decreased from 7.46% in 2005 to 7.27% in 2006. The 2006 amount includes a $3.3 million payroll tax reduction, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to the California state unemployment tax matter. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of group health insurance and related employee benefits increased $26 per worksite employee per month to $453 compared to 2005. This increase is due to a 5.7% increase in the cost per covered employee and a slight increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.7% in 2005 versus 72.4% in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $5 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 0.92% in 2006 from 1.09% in 2005, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. During 2006, the Company recorded reductions in workers compensation costs of $6.4 million, or 0.11% of non bonus payroll costs, for changes in estimated losses and tax surcharges, compared to $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs in 2005. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 119,963 $ 99,562 20.5 % $ 99 $ 93 6.5 % Stock based compensation 3,411 2,079 64.1 % 3 2 50.0 % General and administrative expenses 57,409 52,960 8.4 % 48 50 (4.0 )% Commissions 10,968 10,121 8.4 % 9 10 (10.0 )% Advertising 13,975 12,100 15.5 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,438 15,167 1.8 % 13 14 (7.1 )% Total operating expenses $ 221,164 $ 191,989 15.2 % $ 183 $ 180 1.7 % Operating expenses increased 15.2% to $221.2 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month increased 1.7% to $183 in 2006 versus $180 in 2005. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 20.5%, or $6 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. During 2006, the number of corporate employees increased 16.6%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 4.2% as compared to 2005. Stock based compensation increased 64.1%, or $1 per worksite employee per month. Stock based compensation expense primarily represents the vesting of restricted stock awards. The 2006 expense also includes $280,000 related to the annual stock grant made to the independent members of the Board of Directors. The 2005 amount includes $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 8.4% due primarily to higher expenses associated with the increase in corporate and worksite employee headcount, such as travel, postage and rent. General and administrative expenses decreased $2 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Commissions expense increased 8.4%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2005. Advertising costs increased 15.5%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2006 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2005. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 1.8%, but declined $1 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2005. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) increased to $10.5 million in 2006 compared to $4.0 million in 2005. Interest income increased by $4.8 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program, and higher interest rates in 2006. Interest expense decreased $1.2 million as compared to 2005, due to the repayment of the $32.3 million outstanding variable rate mortgage on our corporate headquarters in May 2006. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2006 we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $25.6 million on pre tax income of $72.1 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses, offset by tax exempt interest income. Our effective income tax rate was 35.5% in the 2006 period compared to 37.2% in the 2005 period. Net Income Net income for 2006 was $46.5 million, or $1.64 per diluted share, compared to $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share in 2005. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 35.7% to $38 in 2006 versus $28 in 2005. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change (in thousands, except per share and statistical data) Revenues (gross billings of $6.633 billion and $5.377 billion less worksite employee payroll cost of $5.463 billion and $4.407 billion, respectively) $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % Gross profit 235,756 197,694 19.3 % Operating expenses 191,989 175,563 9.4 % Operating income 43,767 22,131 97.8 % Other income (expense) 3,980 8,605 (53.7 )% Net income 29,983 19,210 56.1 % Diluted net income per share of common stock 1.12 0.72 55.6 % Statistical Data: Average number of worksite employees paid per month 88,780 77,936 13.9 % Revenues per worksite employee per month (1) $ 1,098 $ 1,037 5.9 % Gross profit per worksite employee per month 221 211 4.7 % Operating expenses per worksite employee per month 180 188 (4.3 )% Operating income per worksite employee per month 41 24 70.8 % Net income from continuing operations per worksite employee per month 28 21 33.3 % (1) Gross billings of $6,226 and $5,749 per worksite employee per month less payroll cost of $5,128 and $4,712 per worksite employee per month, respectively. Revenues Our revenues, which represent gross billings net of worksite employee payroll cost, increased 20.6% over 2004 due to a 13.9% increase in the average number of worksite employees paid per month and a 5.9%, or $61, increase in revenues per worksite employee per month. The 5.9% increase in revenues per worksite employee per month was due to both: (i) increases in the pricing components related to our direct costs, including payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation costs; and (ii) an increase in the markup related to our HR services. Our unit growth rate is affected by three primary sources new client sales, client retention and the net change in existing clients through worksite employee new hires and layoffs. The 13.9% increase in the average 32 Table of Contents number of worksite employees paid per month during 2005 resulted from increases in all three sources of paid worksite employees. The following table presents certain information related to the Companys revenues by region for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 (in thousands) (% of total revenue) Northeast $ 177,466 $ 134,124 32.3 % 15.1 % 13.8 % Southeast 101,785 90,657 12.3 % 8.7 % 9.4 % Central 153,477 137,184 11.9 % 13.1 % 14.1 % Southwest 458,196 378,901 20.9 % 39.2 % 39.1 % West 271,018 222,209 22.0 % 23.2 % 22.9 % Other revenues 7,670 6,452 18.9 % 0.7 % 0.7 % Total revenues $ 1,169,612 $ 969,527 20.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross Profit Gross profit increased 19.3% to $235.8 million compared to 2004. Gross profit per worksite employee increased 4.7% to $221 per month in 2005 versus $211 in 2004. While our revenues per worksite employee per month increased 5.9%, our direct costs, which primarily include payroll taxes, benefits and workers compensation expenses, increased 6.2% to $877 per worksite employee per month in 2005 versus $826 in 2004. The primary direct cost components changed as follows: Payroll tax costs Payroll taxes increased $34 per worksite employee per month. Payroll taxes as a percentage of payroll cost were 7.46% in 2005. This compares to 7.41% in 2004 which included a $2.3 million payroll tax credit, or 0.05% as a percentage of payroll costs, related to a state unemployment matter with the state of California. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25 for a discussion of our accounting for state unemployment taxes. Benefits costs The cost of health insurance and related employee benefits increased $23 per worksite employee per month to $427 compared to 2004. This increase is due to a 3.9% increase in the cost per covered employee and an increase in the percentage of worksite employees covered under our health insurance plan to 72.4% in 2005 versus 71.1% in 2004. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24 for a discussion of our accounting for health insurance costs. Workers compensation costs Workers compensation costs decreased $7 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. As a percentage of non bonus payroll cost, workers compensation costs decreased to 1.09% in 2005 from 1.35% in 2004, primarily as a result of favorable trends in both the frequency and severity of workers compensation claims. These trends resulted in reductions in estimated accrued workers compensation costs related to prior reporting periods of $4.6 million, or 0.09% of non bonus payroll costs, in the 2005 period. Please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26 for a discussion of our accounting for workers compensation costs. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents certain information related to our operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005 2004 % change (in thousands) (per worksite employee per month) Salaries, wages and payroll taxes $ 99,562 $ 88,298 12.8 % $ 93 $ 94 (1.1 )% Stock based compensation 2,079 2 General and administrative expenses 52,960 49,283 7.5 % 50 53 (5.7 )% Commissions 10,121 10,447 (3.1 )% 10 11 (9.1 )% Advertising 12,100 10,021 20.7 % 11 11 Depreciation and amortization 15,167 17,514 (13.4 )% 14 19 (26.3 )% Total operating expenses $ 191,989 $ 175,563 9.4 % $ 180 $ 188 (4.3 )% Operating expenses increased 9.4% to $192.0 million. Operating expenses per worksite employee per month decreased 4.3% to $180 in 2005 versus $188 in 2004. The components of operating expenses changed as follows: Salaries, wages and payroll taxes of corporate and sales staff increased 12.8%, but declined $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. During 2005, incentive compensation increased $6.1 million over 2004 due to the improved operating results. In addition, the number of corporate employees increased 3.1%, and the average pay for corporate employees increased 3.4%. Stock based compensation expense of $2.1 million or $2 per worksite employee per month was a result of: (i) $790,000 related to the acceleration of stock option vesting during the first quarter of 2005; and (ii) $1,289,000 related to the amortization of deferred compensation expense associated with the February 2005 restricted stock grant. Please read Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 17 for additional information. General and administrative expenses increased 7.5%, but declined $3 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004. The increase in total dollars is primarily due to increases in: (i) repairs and maintenance; and (ii) professional fees such as consulting fees, accounting fees and recruiting costs. Commissions expense decreased 3.1% or $1 per worksite employee per month compared to 2004, as an increase in commissions paid to sales personnel was more than offset by cost savings resulting from the termination of our marketing and commission arrangement with American Express in December 2004. Advertising costs increased 20.7%, due primarily to increases in radio and television advertising associated with the 2005 sales campaigns. These costs remained flat on a per worksite employee basis as compared to 2004. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 13.4% and $5 on a per worksite employee basis versus 2004 as the effect of certain fixed assets becoming fully amortized more than offset the incremental depreciation and amortization expense related to the 2005 capital additions. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased to $4.0 million in 2005 compared to $8.6 million in 2004, primarily due to the $8.25 million settlement of our dispute with Aetna during the 2004 period. Interest income increased by $4.1 million, primarily as a result of an increase in cash balances, including cash held in our workers compensation program and higher interest rates in 2005. 34 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense During 2005, we incurred federal and state income tax expense of $17.8 million on pre tax income of $47.7 million. Our provision for income taxes differed from the US statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and non deductible expenses. Our effective income tax rate was 37.2% in the 2005 period compared to 37.5% in the 2004 period. Net Income Net income for 2005 was $30.0 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, compared to $19.2 million, or $0.72 per diluted share in 2004. Net income for 2004 included $5.2 million or $0.19 per share of proceeds related to the settlement of our dispute with Aetna. On a per worksite employee per month basis, net income increased 33.3% to $28 in 2005 versus $21 in 2004. Non GAAP Financial Measures Non bonus payroll cost is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of bonus payrolls paid to our worksite employees. Bonus payroll cost varies from period to period, but has no direct impact to our ultimate workers compensation costs under the current program. As a result, our management refers to non bonus payroll cost in analyzing, reporting and forecasting our workers compensation costs. Non GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and may be different from non GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We include these non GAAP financial measures because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency related to the costs incurred under our current workers compensation program. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non GAAP financial measures used to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided in the table below. Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Change (in thousands, except per worksite employee) GAAP to non GAAP reconciliation: Payroll cost (GAAP) $ 6,665,532 $ 5,463,474 22.0 % Less: bonus payroll cost 640,552 508,170 26.1 % Non Bonus payroll cost $ 6,024,980 $ 4,955,304 21.6 % Payroll cost per worksite employee (GAAP) $ 5,517 $ 5,128 7.6 % Less: Bonus payroll cost per worksite employee 530 477 11.1 % Non bonus payroll cost per worksite employee $ 4,987 $ 4,651 7.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources We periodically evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, our expansion plans, debt service requirements and other operating cash needs. To meet short and long term liquidity requirements, including payment of direct and operating expenses and repaying debt, we rely primarily on cash from operations. However, we have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to raise additional capital or take other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources. We had $234.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2006, of which approximately $105.3 million was payable in early January 2007 for withheld federal and state income taxes, employment taxes and other payroll deductions. At December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $128.4 million compared to $93.2 million at December 31, 2005. We currently believe that our cash on hand, marketable securities and cash flows 35 Table of Contents from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements for 2007. We will rely on these same sources, as well as public and private debt or equity financing, to meet our longer term liquidity and capital needs. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities in 2006 of $88.5 million reflected a decrease of $23.2 million from 2005. Our primary source of cash from operations is the comprehensive service fee and payroll funding we collect from our clients. The level of cash and cash equivalents, and thus our reported cash flows from operating activities are significantly impacted by various external and internal factors, which are reflected in part by the changes in our balance sheet accounts. These include the following: Timing of customer payments / payrolls We typically collect our comprehensive service fee, along with the clients payroll funding, from clients at least one day prior to the payment of worksite employee payrolls and associated payroll taxes. Therefore, the last business day of a reporting period has a substantial impact on our reporting of operating cash flows. For example, many worksite employees are paid on Fridays; therefore, operating cash flows decline in the reporting periods that end on a Friday, such as December 2006, when client prepayments were $9.1 million and accrued worksite employee payroll was $94.8 million. However, for those reporting periods that end on a Thursday, our cash flows are higher due to the collection of the comprehensive service fee and clients payroll funding prior to processing the large number worksite employees payrolls one day subsequent to the period end. Classification of tax benefit from stock based compensation In 2006, we adopted Statement 123(R), which requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation cost. In addition, Statement 123(R) requires the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation to be reported as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to 2006, we reported the tax benefit as a component of operating cash flows, which was $12.8 million in 2005. Operating results Our net income has a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Our net income increased to $46.5 million in 2006 from $30.0 million in 2005. Please read Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 on page 29. Medical plan funding Our healthcare contract with United establishes participant cash funding rates 90 days in advance of the beginning of a reporting quarter. Therefore, changes in the participation level of the United Plan have a direct impact on our operating cash flows. In addition, changes to the funding rates, which are solely determined by United based primarily upon recent claim history and anticipated cost trends, also have a significant impact on our operating cash flows. Since inception of the United Plan in January 2002, cash funded to United has exceeded Plan Costs, resulting in a $15.3 million surplus, $4.3 million of which is reflected as a current asset, and $11.0 million of which is reflected as a long term asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006. Additionally, the $17.5 million in long term deposits was returned to Administaff during 2005. Workers compensation plan funding Under our arrangement with AIG, we make monthly payments to AIG comprised of premium costs and funds to be set aside for payment of future claims (claim funds). These pre determined amounts are stipulated in our agreement with AIG, and are based primarily on anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates during the policy year. Changes in payroll levels from that which was anticipated in the arrangement with AIG can result in changes in the amount of the cash payments to AIG, which will impact our reporting of operating cash flows. Our claim funds paid to AIG, based upon anticipated worksite employee payroll levels and workers compensation loss rates, were $47.4 million, less claims paid of $20.7 million in 2006, and $50.0 million, less claims paid of $17.2 million for the 2005 period. This compares to our estimate of workers compensation loss costs of $37.8 million and $36.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, AIG returned $29.7 million and $22.8 million, respectively, to Administaff for the return of excess funding related to prior policy periods. 36 Table of Contents Cash Flows From Investing Activities Our cash flows used in investing activities of $40.4 million reflected a decrease of $25.1 million from 2005. During 2006, we invested $27.6 million in marketable securities and $12.9 million in capital expenditures, primarily computer hardware and software to enhance the performance and stability of our technology infrastructure. We expect approximately $15 million in capital expenditures in 2007. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $37.1 million during 2006, an increase of $46.5 million over 2005. In May 2006, we paid the remaining balance of $32.3 million on our variable rate mortgage prior to its maturity date of January 2008. Please read Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F 22 for additional information. Additionally, we repurchased $24.2 million in treasury stock and paid $10.0 million in dividends, offset by the receipt of $16.8 million in stock option exercise proceeds and $12.7 million in income tax benefit from stock based compensation. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006 and the effect they are expected to have on our liquidity and capital resources (in thousands): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Contractual obligations: Capital lease obligations $ 1,749 $ 583 $ 1,166 $ $ Non cancelable operating leases 42,409 9,685 14,632 10,120 7,972 Purchase obligations (1) 14,512 6,933 6,709 380 490 Other long term liabilities Accrued workers compensation claim costs (2) 77,424 35,840 18,198 15,797 7,589 Total contractual cash obligations $ 136,094 $ 53,041 $ 40,705 $ 26,297 $ 16,051 (1) The table includes purchase obligations associated with non cancelable contracts individually greater than $100,000 and one year. (2) Accrued workers compensation claim costs include the short and long term amounts. For more information, please read Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. Seasonality, Inflation and Quarterly Fluctuations We believe the effects of inflation have not had a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll and Benefits Costs Under the CSA, we become a co employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for: payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Premiums Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2007, and automatically renews each year, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. Health insurance premiums are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. We employ extensive risk management procedures in an attempt to control our claims incidence and structure our benefits contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible. However, if we experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in claim activity, our health insurance costs could increase. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24. Increases in Workers Compensation Costs In 2003, facing continued capital constraints and a series of downgrades from various rating agencies, our former workers compensation insurance carrier for the two year period ending September 2003, Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company, a unit of Kemper Insurance Companies (Kemper), made the decision to substantially cease underwriting operations and voluntarily entered into run off. A run off is the professional management of an insurance companys discontinued, distressed or nonrenewed lines of insurance and associated liabilities outside of a judicial proceeding. In the event the run off process is not successful and Kemper is forced into bankruptcy or a similar proceeding, most states have established guaranty funds to pay remaining claims. However, the guarantee associations in some states, including Texas, have asserted that state law returns the liability for open claims under such policies to the insured, as we experienced when another former insurance carrier, Reliance National Indemnity Co., declared bankruptcy in 2001. In that case, the Texas state guaranty association asserted that it was entitled to full reimbursement from us for workers compensation benefits paid by the association. Although we settled that dispute within the limits of insurance coverage we had secured to cover potential claims returned to us related to the Reliance policies, if one or more states were to assert that liability for open claims with Kemper should be returned to us, we may be required to make a payment to the state covering estimated claims attributable to us. Any such payment would reduce net income, which may have a material adverse effect on net income in the reported period. The current workers compensation contract with AIG expires on September 30, 2007. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member 38 Table of Contents insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with AIG, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. In conjunction with entering into the AIG Program, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefits Costs on page 24. Increases in Workers Compensation Costs In 2003, facing continued capital constraints and a series of downgrades from various rating agencies, our former workers compensation insurance carrier for the two year period ending September 2003, Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company, a unit of Kemper Insurance Companies (Kemper), made the decision to substantially cease underwriting operations and voluntarily entered into run off. A run off is the professional management of an insurance companys discontinued, distressed or nonrenewed lines of insurance and associated liabilities outside of a judicial proceeding. In the event the run off process is not successful and Kemper is forced into bankruptcy or a similar proceeding, most states have established guaranty funds to pay remaining claims. However, the guarantee associations in some states, including Texas, have asserted that state law returns the liability for open claims under such policies to the insured, as we experienced when another former insurance carrier, Reliance National Indemnity Co., declared bankruptcy in 2001. In that case, the Texas state guaranty association asserted that it was entitled to full reimbursement from us for workers compensation benefits paid by the association. Although we settled that dispute within the limits of insurance coverage we had secured to cover potential claims returned to us related to the Reliance policies, if one or more states were to assert that liability for open claims with Kemper should be returned to us, we may be required to make a payment to the state covering estimated claims attributable to us. Any such payment would reduce net income, which may have a material adverse effect on net income in the reported period. The current workers compensation contract with AIG expires on September 30, 2007. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our workers compensation coverage (the AIG Program) is currently provided through selected member 38 Table of Contents insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Under our arrangement with AIG, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence. AIG bears the economic burden for all claims in excess of such first $1 million layer. The AIG Program is a fully insured policy whereby AIG has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with AIG, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. In conjunction with entering into the AIG Program, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Workers Compensation Costs on page 26. In conjunction with entering into the AIG Program, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the Captive). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates State Unemployment Taxes on page 25. Need to Renew or Replace Clients Our standard CSA can be cancelled by us or the client with 30 to 60 days notice. Accordingly, the short term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2006. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels or increase in the future. Competition and New Market Entrants The PEO industry is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size. We also encounter competition from fee for service companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Several of our competitors are PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. Such companies have substantially greater resources than Administaff. Accordingly, the PEO divisions of such companies may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well organized competition with greater resources than us may enter the PEO market, possibly including large fee for service companies currently providing a more limited range of services. Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various 39 Table of Contents governmental regulations. However, because we act as a co employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the clients conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage our exposure for these types of claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Federal, State and Local Regulation As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of employer under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 31 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs, and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co employment relationship for unemployment, workers compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration While we have sales offices in 22 markets, our Houston and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 19% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current and future markets outside of Texas, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas (including Houston). Potential Client Liability for Employment Taxes Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: income tax withholding requirements; obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (FICA); and obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We are primarily exposed to market risks from fluctuations in interest rates and the effects of those fluctuations on the market values of our cash equivalent short term investments and our available for sale marketable securities. The cash equivalent short term investments consist primarily of overnight investments, which are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk, except to the extent that changes in interest rates will ultimately affect the amount of interest income earned on these investments. The available for sale marketable securities are subject to interest rate risk because these securities generally include a fixed interest rate. As a result, the market values of these securities are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. We attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk primarily through diversification and low investment turnover. Our marketable securities are currently managed by two professional investment management companies, each of which is guided by our investment policy. Our investment policy is designed to maximize after tax interest income while preserving our principal investment. As a result, our marketable securities consist primarily of tax exempt short and intermediate term debt securities. As of December 31, 2006, our available for sale marketable securities included an investment in a mutual fund that holds corporate debt securities with maturities up to 18 months. The amortized cost basis, fair market value and 30 day yield of this investment was $11.7 million, $11.5 million and 4.86%, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The following table presents information about our available for sale marketable securities, excluding the mutual fund investment, as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): Principal Average Maturities Interest Rate 2007 $ 950 3.4 % 2008 2,200 2.9 % 2009 490 5.1 % 2010 2011 Thereafter 70,460 (1) 3.8 % Total $ 74,100 3.7 % Fair Market Value $ 74,102 (1) Includes auction rate securities with original maturities greater than ten years; however, the interest rates reset at least every 60 days based on short term market yields. 
</SECTION>
