<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: NEOWARE INC
CIK: 0000894743
SIC: 3571
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20070630
FILE DATE: 20070912
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent Developments On July 23, 2007, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or merger agreement, with Hewlett Packard Company, or HP, and Narwhal Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of HP, or the merger sub, pursuant to which HP has agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock for a cash purchase price of $16.25 per share. The acquisition will be accomplished by the merger of merger sub with and into Neoware, with Neoware surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of HP. The aggregate purchase price will be approximately $214.0 million, net of our estimated cash and cash equivalents and short term investments balance of $120.0 million as of August 31, 2007. Outstanding Neoware stock options having an exercise price less than $16.25 per share will become fully vested and converted into the right to receive an amount equal to (x) the aggregate number of shares that were issuable upon exercise of the option immediately prior to the effective time of the merger and (y) the excess, if any, of $16.25 over the per share exercise price. Options having an exercise price per share equal to or greater than $16.25 per share will be cancelled without payment or 29 Table of Contents consideration. Each outstanding award of Neoware restricted stock held by an employee who becomes an employee of HP immediately after the merger that is subject to vesting or other lapse restrictions and has not otherwise been forfeited immediately prior to the merger will (a) be subject to, and will become vested upon, terms and conditions that are substantially similar to those currently applicable to such restricted stock, (b) represent the right to receive the merger consideration as each share vests, subject to applicable withholding requirements, and (c) continue to be subject to the other terms and conditions of the applicable initial documentation for such restricted stock. The closing of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory review and Neoware stockholder approval. The merger agreement contains certain termination rights and provides that, upon the termination of the merger agreement under specified circumstances, Neoware will be required to pay HP a termination fee of $10.0 million. The merger agreement provided for a post signing go shop period which permitted Neoware to solicit certain competing acquisition proposals for 20 business days, concluding at 12:01 am, New York City time, on August 18, 2007. No competing proposals were received. The parties anticipate that the transaction will be consummated in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2007. We believe that the planned merger will be consummated; however the outcome cannot be predicted with certainty. For additional information regarding potential risks and uncertainties associated with the pending merger, please see the information under the caption Risk Factors within Part I, Item 1A. On August 10, 2007, we filed a preliminary proxy statement and other relevant materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the acquisition of Neoware by HP and on August 28, 2007 we filed a definitive proxy statement with the SEC in connection with such acquisition. The definitive proxy statement was mailed to all of our stockholders and will, with the other relevant documents, be available free of charge at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and stockholders may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC from Cameron Associates, 1370 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10019, 1 212 245 8800. Before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the acquisition, investors and stockholders of Neoware are advised to read the definitive proxy statement and the other relevant materials when and if completed because they will contain important information about the acquisition. The definitive proxy statement contains important information regarding the merger, and we urge all of our stockholders to read the definitive proxy statement carefully and in its entirety. Overview We are a leading global provider of thin client computing solutions. We generate revenue primarily from sales of thin client devices, which include the device and related software, and to a lesser extent from our software sold on a standalone basis for use on thin client devices, personal computers and servers and complementary services such as integration, training and maintenance utilizing our global integration and development centers. To date, sales of standalone software products and services have not exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues for any period. We sell our products worldwide through our alliances with IBM, Lenovo, NEC, and ClearCube, and other indirect channels such as distributors, resellers and systems integrators, and to a lesser extent through direct sales. Our customers, including those we serve through our alliance and distribution partners, include AutoZone, CVS, Daimler Chrysler, France Telecom, Lockheed Martin, Royal Bank of Canada and the VA Medical Centers. Our international sales are primarily made through distributors and are collectible primarily in US dollars, while the associated operating expenses are payable in foreign currencies. In addition to our principal headquarters in the United States, we maintain offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Austria, China, and Australia. Net revenues from sales outside of the United States, primarily in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), based on the location of our customers, were as follows: Year Ended June 30, 2007 2006 2005 International net revenues $ 37,064 $ 35,226 $ 31,682 Percentage change over prior period 5 % 11 % 13 % Percentage of net revenue 41 % 33 % 40 % 30 Table of Contents Strategy The market for thin client devices is part of the enterprise personal computer (PC) market. We market our thin client devices as alternatives to PCs in certain target markets. Our strategies are to focus on selling thin client software and device products that compete effectively with PCs, increasing sales to small, medium and large enterprise customers, through our relationships with IBM, Lenovo and other resellers, as well as directly to end users. We have been executing marketing initiatives designed to grow the thin client segment of the PC industry. We utilize third parties that we believe have strong market positions in the server based computing market to expand our sales and marketing efforts, which allows us to develop new customer relationships as well as gain access to new markets. Acquisitions In November 2005, we completed the acquisition, pursuant to a merger, of Maxspeed Corporation, a provider of thin client solutions, headquartered in Palo Alto, California, with research, development and sales offices in Shanghai, China. In October 2005, we acquired the thin client business of TeleVideo, Inc., including a trademark license, product brands, customer lists, customer contracts and non competition agreements. In April 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Qualystem Technology S.A.S., a provider of software that streams Windows and application components on demand from a server to other servers, personal computers, and thin clients. As a result of the Qualystem acquisition, we acquired intellectual property, technology and non compete agreements. In March 2005, we acquired the ThinTune thin client business of eSeSIX Computer which included customer lists, intellectual property and technology, and also entered into reseller, supplier and non competition agreements and we acquired all of the outstanding shares of eSeSIX Tech, eSeSIX Computers development and engineering affiliate. eSeSIX Computer, together with eSeSIX Tech are collectively referred to as the ThinTune thin client business. In January 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Mangrove Systems S.A.S., a provider of Linux software solutions. As a result of the Mangrove acquisition, we acquired customer lists, intellectual property and technology and non compete agreements. In September 2004, we acquired the thin client business of Visara, including customer lists, intellectual property and technology, and also entered into reseller, supplier and non competition agreements. Our acquisition strategy is to integrate acquired businesses into our core business to generate increased revenues, as well as synergies for the company as a whole. This generally involves transitioning channel partners and end customers to our core products and utilizing acquired development and sales resources to support our core development, sales and marketing activities. Accordingly, we do not have the ability to accurately report revenue from our acquired businesses. Financial Highlights Net revenue, gross profit margin, and earnings per share are key measurements of our financial results. For fiscal 2007, net revenue was $90.4 million, a decline of 16% from fiscal 2006. Gross profit margin was 37% for fiscal 2007 as compared to 41% in fiscal 2006. The revenue decrease was the result of decreased sales primarily to several large enterprise customers in the US. The gross profit margin percentage decrease was primarily the result of competitive pricing resulting in reduced average selling prices (ASP), an increasing mix of XPe based product which carries a lower gross profit margin, lower revenue from direct software sales and higher overhead expenses. Diluted loss per share was $0.12 for fiscal 2007, compared to a net income of $0.39 in fiscal 2006, as a result of decreased gross profit from lower revenue and lower gross profit margins, increased operating expenses, increased stock based compensation and increased cost of amortization of acquired intangibles. Stock based compensation expense included in these results was $102,000 in cost of products sold and $4.4 million in operating expense for fiscal 2007, and amortization of intangibles was $1.4 million in cost of products sold and $2.4 million for fiscal 31 Table of Contents 2007. Our fiscal 2007 results were also affected by approximately $1.7 million of severance costs (included in operating expenses) associated with senior management turnover and $874,000 of abandoned acquisition costs for an acquisition that did not close. For fiscal 2006, net revenue was $107.2 million, an increase of 36% from fiscal 2005. Gross profit margin was 41% for fiscal 2006 as compared to 43% in fiscal 2005. The revenue increase was the result of increased sales of our products, primarily to large enterprise customers. The gross profit margin percentage decrease was primarily the result of significant sales of the Neoware e900 thin client product in fiscal 2006. The Neoware e900 has higher average selling prices, higher gross profit dollars per unit sold, and lower percentage gross margins than other Neoware thin client devices. Diluted earnings per share decreased to $0.39 for fiscal 2006, compared to $0.46 in fiscal 2005, as a result of increased gross profit from revenue growth, offset by stock based compensation expense, increased operating expenses, and increased cost of amortization of acquired intangibles, as well as a larger number of fully diluted shares due to a stock offering completed in February 2006. Stock based compensation expense included in these results was $86,000 in cost of products sold and $3.3 million in operating expense for fiscal 2006, and amortization of intangibles was $3.2 million and $1.8 million for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our fiscal 2006 results were also adversely affected by the significant financial difficulties of one of our German distributors, which caused us to reserve revenue of $675,000 invoiced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and to add $385,000 to our reserve for doubtful accounts. As of June 30, 2007, our cash, cash equivalents and short term investments were $121.5 million, compared to $114.1 million at June 30, 2006. During fiscal 2007 we generated $3.7 million of cash from operations, received $1.7 million from the settlement of escrow matters related to the Maxspeed acquisition and received $2.5 million of cash from the exercise of stock options and related excess tax benefits. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amounts of revenue and other significant areas that involve managements judgments and estimates. These critical accounting policies and estimates include: Revenue recognition Valuation of long lived and intangible assets and goodwill Accounting for income taxes Stock based compensation These policies and estimates and our procedures related to these policies and estimates are described in detail below and under specific areas within the discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Please refer to Note 1, Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our accounting policies and estimates. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates and Management Discussion and Analysis with its Audit Committee. Revenue Recognition For each type of arrangement, we make judgments regarding: the fair value of multiple elements contained in our arrangements, whether fees are fixed or determinable, whether collectibility is probable, and the accounting for potential distributor stock rotation rights and price protection. These judgments, and their effect on revenue recognition, are discussed below. Multiple Element Arrangements Net revenues include sales of thin client devices, which include the device and related software, maintenance and technical support as well as standalone software products and services. We follow AICPA Statement of Position No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition (SOP 97 2) for revenue recognition. Revenue is recognized on product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of the product has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectibility is probable. 32 Table of Contents Beginning in March 2007 changes were introduced to our post contract support services whereby the cost to provide these services are not expected to be insignificant and unspecified upgrades and enhancements are expected to be more than minimal and infrequent. As a result, in March 2007 we began to defer revenue related to these services from sales of our products which include one year of post contract support services. Prior to March 2007 revenue related to post contract support services was generally recognized with the initial product sale when the fee was included with the initial product fee, post contract services were for one year or less, the estimated cost of providing such services during the arrangement was insignificant, and unspecified upgrades and enhancements offered during the period were expected to continue to be minimal and infrequent. Revenue from extended warranty and stand alone post contract support service contracts is recorded as deferred revenue and subsequently recognized over the term of the contract. Vendor specific objective evidence of these amounts is determined by the price charged when these elements are sold separately. The Fee is Fixed or Determinable We make judgments at the outset of an arrangement regarding whether the fees are fixed or determinable. The majority of our payment terms are within 30 to 60 days after invoice date. We review arrangements that have payment terms extending beyond 60 days on a case by case basis to determine if the fee is fixed or determinable. If we determine at the outset of an arrangement that the fees are not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the fees become due and payable. Collection is Probable We make judgments at the outset of an arrangement regarding whether collection is probable. Probability of collection is assessed on a customer by customer basis. We typically sell to customers with whom we have had a history of successful collections. New customers are subjected to a credit review process to evaluate the customers financial position and ability to pay. If we determine at the outset of an arrangement that collection is not probable, revenue is recognized upon receipt of payment. Stock Rotation Rights and Price Protection We provide certain distributors with stock rotation rights and price protection. Stock rotation rights are generally limited to a maximum amount per quarter and require a corresponding order of equal or greater value at the time of the stock rotation. We provide price protection as a rebate in the event that we reduce the price of products that our distributors have yet to sell to end users. We estimate potential stock rotation and price protection claims based on historical experience and the level of inventories in the distribution channel and reduce current period revenue accordingly. If we cannot reasonably estimate claims related to stock rotations and price protection at the outset of an arrangement, we recognize revenue when the claims can be reasonably estimated. Valuation of Long Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill In connection with acquisitions, we allocate portions of the purchase price to tangible and intangible assets, consisting of acquired technologies, distributor and customer relationships, tradenames and non compete agreements based on independent appraisals received after each acquisition, with the remainder allocated to goodwill. We assess the realizability of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives pursuant to SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We are required to perform a SFAS No. 142 impairment test at least annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Our annual impairment date is June 30. We have determined that the reporting unit level is our sole operating segment. The test for goodwill is a two step process: First, we compare the carrying amount of our reporting unit, which is the book value of the entire Company, to the fair value of our reporting unit. If the carrying amount of our reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we have to perform the second step of the process. If not, no further testing is needed. If the second part of the analysis is required, we allocate the fair value of our reporting unit to all assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination at the date of the impairment test. 33 Table of Contents We then compare the implied fair value of our reporting units goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of our reporting units goodwill exceeds its fair value, we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss is the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. We review our long lived assets, including amortizable intangibles, for impairment when events indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. When we determine that one or more impairment indicators are present for an asset, we compare the carrying amount of the asset to net future undiscounted cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. If the carrying amount of the asset is greater than the net future undiscounted cash flows that the asset is expected to generate, we compare the fair value to the book value of the asset. If the fair value is less than the book value, we recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss is the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. Some of the events that we consider as impairment indicators for our long lived assets, including goodwill, are: Our net book value compared to our market capitalization; Significant adverse economic and industry trends; Significant decrease in the market value of the asset; The extent that we use an asset or changes in the manner that we use it; and Significant changes to the asset since we acquired it. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 we determined that certain tradenames were no longer going to be utilized and we wrote off the remaining net book value by recording additional amortization expense of $250,000. At June 30, 2007, goodwill and intangible assets were $37.5 million and $8.7 million, respectively. A decrease in the value of our business could trigger an impairment charge related to goodwill and or amortizable intangible assets. Accounting for Income Taxes We are required to estimate our income taxes in each federal, state and international jurisdiction in which we operate. This process requires that we estimate the current tax expense as well as assess temporary differences between the accounting and tax treatment of assets and liabilities, including items such as accruals and allowances not currently deductible for tax purposes. The income tax effects of the differences we identify are classified as current or long term deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our balance sheet and results of operations. We must also assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income and, based on our assessment, establish a valuation allowance, if required. Stock Based Compensation Prior to June 30, 2005, we accounted for employee stock option plans based on the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations and had adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No.123), as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure (SFAS No. 148). Accordingly, compensation cost for stock options was measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the Companys stock at the grant date over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock. The Company granted stock options with exercise prices equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant; therefore, the Company did not record stock based compensation expense under APB Opinion No. 25. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment, (SFAS No. 123R) to require that compensation cost relating to share based payment arrangements be recognized in financial statements. As of July 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective 34 Table of Contents method, which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of stock options are determined using the Black Scholes valuation model, which is consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for stock options in footnote disclosures required under SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148. Such fair value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The adoption of SFAS No.123R resulted in no cumulative change in accounting as of the date of adoption. On March 29, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission published Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB No. 107), which provides the Staffs views on a variety of matters relating to stock based payments. SAB No. 107 requires stock based compensation to be classified in the same expense line items as cash compensation. Information about stock based compensation included in the results of operations is as follows (in thousands): Year Ended June 30, 2007 2006 Cost of revenues $ 102 $ 86 Selling and marketing 1,353 1,238 Research and development 376 394 General and administrative 2,705 1,668 $ 4,536 $ 3,386 SFAS No. 123R provides that income tax effects of share based payments are recognized in the financial statements for those awards which will normally result in tax deductions under existing tax law. Under current U.S. federal and U.K. tax laws, we would receive a compensation expense deduction related to non qualified stock options only when those options are exercised and vested shares are received. Accordingly, the financial statement recognition of compensation cost for non qualified stock options creates a deductible temporary difference which results in a deferred tax asset and a corresponding deferred tax benefit in the income statement. We do not recognize a tax benefit for compensation expense related to incentive stock options (ISOs) unless the underlying shares are disposed of in a disqualifying disposition. Accordingly, compensation expense related to ISOs is treated as a permanent difference for income tax purposes which increases the effective tax rate. For stock based compensation arrangements we make judgments about the fair value of the awards, including the expected term of the award, volatility of the underlying stock and estimated forfeitures, which impact the amount of compensation expense recognized in the financial statements. Results of Operations Net Revenues (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Net revenue $ 90,401 $ 107,219 $ 78,784 Percentage change over prior period (16 )% 36 % 25 % We derive revenues primarily from the sale of thin client devices, which include a device and related software and services. Net revenues decreased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to lower sales of our products to our top five US based large enterprise customers that contributed $6.2 million in fiscal 2007 compared to sales of $31.5 million in fiscal 2006. We experienced increases in other areas of our business including a 19% increase in our SMB and distributor groups for fiscal year 2007 and an increase in our EMEA based business compared to fiscal 2006. Unit sales of thin client devices in fiscal 2007 decreased 10% compared to fiscal 2006 primarily due to decreased sales to large enterprise customers. Average selling prices in fiscal 2007 decreased 8% compared to fiscal 2006 due to a change in product mix and competitive pricing pressure. Average selling prices will vary depending on product mix and competitive pricing situations. The increases in net revenues in fiscal 2006 over fiscal 2005 is due to an increase in market acceptance of thin client computing, an increase in our customer base from our selling and marketing activities, including an increase 35 Table of Contents in sales to large enterprise customers and an increase in our business with IBM and Lenovo. Unit sales of thin client devices increased 23% in fiscal 2006 over fiscal 2005. Average selling prices increased slightly in fiscal 2006 due primarily to the change in product mix primarily resulting from the introduction of the Neoware e900, which carries a much higher selling price than our other thin client devices. Average selling prices declined slightly in fiscal 2005 due to changes in product mix, our strategy to reduce selling prices to increase sales to large enterprise customers and increased competition. Average selling prices will vary depending on product mix and competitive pricing situations. The Neoware e900 was introduced in fiscal 2006 and contributed 11% of fiscal 2006 net revenues. The following table sets forth sales to customers comprising 10% or more of our net revenue: Year Ended June 30, 2007 2006 2005 Net revenues North American distributor 11 % * 10 % Lenovo * 17 % 5 % North American customer * 11 % * IBM * * 14 % (*) Amounts do not exceed 10% for such period Net revenues from sales outside of the United States, primarily in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), based on the location of our customers, were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended June 30, 2007 2006 2005 International net revenues $ 37,064 $ 35,226 $ 31,682 Percentage change over prior period 5 % 11 % 13 % Percentage of net revenue 41 % 33 % 40 % International net revenues increased as a percentage of net revenues in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 due to a decline in revenue in the United States and to increased revenue in EMEA due to expanded sales and marketing resources. International net revenues declined as a percentage of net revenues in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due to higher revenue growth in the United States, primarily as a result of an increase in sales to large enterprise customers in the United States. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, one of our German distributors experienced significant financial difficulties and has since declared insolvency, which, in the fourth quarter, caused us to reverse revenues of $675,000 invoiced in April through June 2006 and to add $385,000 to our reserve for doubtful accounts. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Margin (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Cost of products $ 56,035 $ 61,607 $ 43,833 Percentage change over prior period (9 )% 40 % 35 % Amortization of intangibles $ 1,367 $ 1,260 $ 737 Percentage change over prior period 8 % 71 % 89 % Total cost of revenue $ 57,402 $ 62,867 $ 44,570 Percentage change over prior period (9 )% 41 % 36 % Gross profit margin 37 % 41 % 43 % Cost of revenues consists primarily of the cost of thin client devices, which include a device and related software, and, to a lesser extent, overhead including salaries and related benefits for personnel who fulfill product orders, delivery services, amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions, distribution costs, and beginning in fiscal 2006, stock based compensation expense. The decrease in cost of revenues in fiscal 2007 is primarily the result of lower unit sales offset by increased overhead costs including a $1.5 million charge for inventory obsolescence related to the Maxspeed acquisition, and 36 Table of Contents higher labor and third party costs to support product manufacturing and service requirements. Stock based compensation expense included in cost of revenues was $102,000 in fiscal 2007. The increase in cost of revenues in fiscal 2006 is primarily the result of increased unit sales and to a lesser extent to increased amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, change in product mix with the introduction of the Neoware e900 thin client product in fiscal 2006, which carries a higher unit cost, increased freight costs related to air shipments and fuel cost increases and a charge of $484,000 related to the impact of the write up of finished goods inventory to fair value related to the Maxspeed acquisition. Stock based compensation expense included in cost of revenues was $86,000 in fiscal 2006. The decrease in gross profit margin in fiscal 2007 is primarily the result of declining average selling prices due to competitive pressures, a change in product mix to a larger portion of XPe based products, which generally carries a lower gross profit margin and higher overhead expense due to increase costs of labor, inventory obsolescence charges and a smaller revenue base in relation to the overall overhead costs. The decrease in gross profit margin in fiscal 2006 is primarily the result of increased sales of the Neoware e900 thin client device, which has a higher selling price, higher gross profit dollars per unit sold, but a lower gross profit margin than our other thin client devices. Sales and Marketing (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Sales and marketing $ 19,541 $ 16,920 $ 12,118 As a percentage of net revenues 22 % 16 % 15 % Percentage change over prior period 15 % 40 % (3 )% Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, related benefits, commissions, advertising, direct marketing, the cost of trade shows and other costs associated with our sales and marketing efforts and beginning in fiscal 2006, stock based compensation expense. The increase in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2007, as compared to fiscal 2006, was due to a $896,000 increase in employee and contractor compensation costs. In addition, we spent $909,000 more in outside marketing services, including expenses for advertising and promotion and incurred $545,000 in severance costs due to senior level staff turnover. The increase in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2006, as compared to fiscal 2005, was due to $1.2 million of stock based compensation expense, and an increase in employee headcount resulting in an additional $2.2 million of employee compensation cost. In addition, we spent $644,000 more in outside marketing services during fiscal 2006, including expenses for consultants and advertising and promotion. Research and Development (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Research and development $ 6,899 $ 6,030 $ 3,850 As a percentage of net revenues 8 % 6 % 5 % Percentage change over prior period 14 % 57 % 38 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, related benefits, and other engineering related costs and beginning in fiscal 2006, stock based compensation expense. The increase in research and development in fiscal 2007 is primarily the result of an increase in employee headcount and $231,000 of charges for severance costs due to senior level staff turnover. The increase in research and development in fiscal 2006 is primarily the result of an increase in employee headcount primarily from acquisitions resulting in an additional $1.5 million of employee compensation costs and $394,000 related to the impact of stock based compensation expense. 37 Table of Contents General and Administrative (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 General and administrative $ 12,259 $ 10,211 $ 6,866 As a percentage of net revenues 14 % 10 % 9 % Percentage change over prior period 20 % 49 % 25 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, related benefits, corporate insurance, such as director and officer liability insurance, fees related to the cost of operating as a public company and fees for legal, audit and tax services, and beginning in fiscal 2006, stock based compensation expense. The increase in general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2007 is primarily the result of an increase in employee related costs, $876,000 of charges for severance costs and $1.0 million increase in stock based compensation expense due to senior level staff turnover and modification of our former CEOs stock options. The increase in general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2006 is primarily the result of $1.7 million of stock based compensation expense, a $269,000 increase in franchise and capital stock taxes due to revenue and asset growth, a $385,000 increase in the bad debt expense primarily related to the insolvency of a European distributor, $210,000 in higher facility costs due to the relocation into a new facility and increased costs related to managing a larger world wide organization, partially offset by a reduction of $436,000 in consulting services primarily due to lower third party consulting costs relating to compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Amortization of Intangibles (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Amortization of intangibles $ 2,403 $ 1,965 $ 1,058 As a percentage of net revenues 3 % 2 % 1 % Percentage change over prior period 22 % 86 % 61 % Amortization of intangibles increased in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 due to an increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions and the $250,000 write off of certain tradenames. As of June 20, 2007, we had unamortized intangible assets in the net amount of $8.7 million. Abandoned Acquisition Costs During fiscal 2007, we incurred $874,000 in acquisition related expenses which were related to acquisitions that were not consummated. These costs consisted primarily of advisory, legal, third party due diligence and accounting fees. Interest Income, Net (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Interest income, net $ 4,158 $ 1,937 $ 859 As a percentage of net revenues 5 % 2 % 1 % Percentage change over prior period 115 % 125 % 119 % Interest income is generated from cash, cash equivalent and investment balances generally invested in tax free, short term instruments. Interest income increased in fiscal 2007 and 2006 due to earnings on increased cash and investment, generated primarily from the common stock offering completed in February 2006 and to a lesser extent cash provided from operations. Income Taxes (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Income tax expense (benefit) $ (2,533 ) $ 4,007 $ 3,425 Effective tax rate 52 % 36 % 32 % Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2007 was impacted by the net loss, the impact of federal tax free investment income, the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (EIE), from foreign income taxes in lower tax rate countries, and 38 Table of Contents non deductible stock based compensation expense. During fiscal 2007, we benefited from the impact of federal tax free investment income, the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (EIE), and from foreign income taxes in lower tax rate countries. The EIE provides a tax benefit by excluding a portion of income from qualified foreign sales from gross income, however the benefit was phased out at the end of calendar 2006. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2006 increased from fiscal 2005 primarily due to the non deductible portion of stock based compensation related to SFAS No. 123R. During fiscal 2006, we benefited from the impact of federal tax free investment income, the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (EIE), the initial year impact of the manufacturing deduction for the Jobs Creation Act and from foreign income taxes in lower tax rate countries. The EIE provides a tax benefit by excluding a portion of income from qualified foreign sales from gross income, however the benefit was phased out at the end of calendar 2006. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2007, we had net working capital of $135.7 million. Our principal sources of liquidity include $121.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments and an Offering Basis Loan Agreement with a bank under which we can request short term loan advances up to an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 million. Upon such request, the bank would provide us with the interest rate, terms and conditions applicable to the requested loan advance. The funds would be committed upon agreement of such terms by both parties. Unless otherwise agreed to by the bank, the term for any advance cannot exceed 180 days. There were no borrowings under the Offering Basis Loan Agreement during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. Cash and cash equivalents increased by $56.7 million during fiscal 2007, due to $3.7 million generated from operations, $49.7 million from net sales of short term investments, $1.7 million from settlement of outstanding escrow matters related to the Maxspeed acquisition $2.5 million from stock options and related tax benefits, partially offset by $1.7 million in purchases of property and equipment Cash flows provided by operating activities: Cash flow from operating activities in fiscal 2007 was $3.7 million compared to $8.4 million in fiscal 2006 and $7.2 million in fiscal 2005. These cash flows related primarily to net income (loss) adjusted for non cash charges, including depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation, the impact of deferred income taxes and net changes in cash flow from our operating assets and liabilities including accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash flows used in investing activities: In fiscal 2007 we incurred $1.7 million of expenditures for property and equipment primarily due to the purchase and implementation of a new ERP system and in fiscal 2006, we incurred $1.5 million of expenditures for property and equipment primarily due to relocation of the corporate headquarters and investments in internal systems. Cash flows used in investing activities in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 included cash used for acquisitions of businesses totaling $17.6 million in fiscal 2006 and $20.9 million in fiscal 2005. Other investing activities included purchases and sales of short term investments, which we typically purchase with surplus cash and purchases of property and equipment. Cash flows provided by financing activities: Cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2007 relate primarily to stock option activity including related income tax benefits. Cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2006 included $71.2 million of net proceeds from issuance of common stock, net of expenses. In February 2006, we sold 3,000,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $25.25 per share. Net proceeds totaled $71.2 million after transaction costs. The exercise of employee stock options and related excess tax benefits provided $9.6 million and $1.4 in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. 39 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2007 (in thousands): 2009 and 2011 and 2013 and Total 2008 2010 2012 thereafter Product purchase obligations $ 17,270 $ 17,270 $ $ $ Operating leases 3,164 961 1,180 880 143 Other purchase obligations 1,030 1,030 $ 21,464 $ 19,261 $ 1,180 $ 880 $ 143 The above table excludes contingent amounts payable pursuant to arrangements with executive officers which provide for severance obligations of up to an aggregate of $2.2 million. In connection with our acquisition of Maxspeed, we recorded a restructuring reserve of $1.4 million as of the acquisition date. The remaining balance will be used to cover agreed upon lease obligations with any residual balance payable to the Maxspeed shareholders after the expiration of the lease. We expect to fund current operations and other cash expenditures through the use of available cash, cash from operations, funds that may be available under our Offering Basis Loan Agreement and, potentially, new debt or equity financings. Management believes that we will have sufficient funds from current cash, operations and available financing to fund operations and cash expenditures for the foreseeable future. However, we may seek additional sources of funding in order to fund acquisitions. Off Balance Sheet Our guarantee agreements are discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Recent Accounting Pronouncement note to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning our implementation and impact of new accounting standards. This annual report on Form 10 K contains statements that are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements regarding: our acquisition of businesses and technologies; the growth of thin client computing, including Linux thin clients and virtualization; our continued investment in technology developments; our relationships with our alliances and channel partners; the expansion of our global organization and the growth of international markets; our initiation of a patent program to protect our proprietary software; our average selling prices depending on product mix and competitive pricing; the availability of cash or other financing sources to fund future operations; and cash expenditures and acquisitions . These forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. The factors set forth below, and those contained in Risk Factors and set forth elsewhere in this report, could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward looking statement. Factors that could affect our actual results include our ability to attract and retain enterprise customers; our ability to maintain our relationship with our channel partners, including IBM and Lenovo, the timing and receipt of future orders, our timely development and customers acceptance of our products, pricing pressures, rapid technological changes in the industry, growth of overall thin client sales through the capture of a greater portion of the PC market, increased competition, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including the former employees of the businesses we acquired; our success in implementing our product development and channel program initiatives and the rebuilding of our infrastructure within our planned timeframe; our ability to retain our newly appointed key staff members and to maintain our relationships with our channel partners; insufficient resources to fund our virtualization initiatives; the lack of growth in thin client computing; the economic viability of our suppliers and channel partners, adverse changes in customer order patterns, our ability to identify future acquisitions and to successfully consummate and integrate recently completed and future acquisitions, our ability to protect our proprietary software, increases in the cost of thin client appliances and components, adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U. S. and internationally, risks associated with foreign operations and political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events. 40 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We earn interest income from our balances of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. This interest income is subject to market risk related to changes in interest rates which primarily affects our investment portfolio. We invest in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy. As of June 30, 2007, cash equivalents and short term investments consisted primarily of corporate notes and government securities, auction rate securities, and other specific money market instruments of similar liquidity and credit quality. Due to the conservative nature of our investment portfolio, a sudden change in interest rates would not have a material effect on the value of the portfolio. We have operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Austria, China and Australia that are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. As currency rates change, translation of the foreign entities statements of operations from local currencies to U.S. dollars affects year to year comparability of operating results. Additionally, we have investments in each of these countries for which we recognize unrealized gains and losses through other comprehensive income within stockholders equity for foreign currency fluctuations. A substantial portion of our non US expenses include salary, benefits and local operating expenses and are transacted in local currencies, primarily Euros and British Pounds. Future cash flows are subject to volatility caused by changes in currency exchange rates. To date we have not established a hedging program. 
</SECTION>
