<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: METASOLV INC
CIK: 0000916704
SIC: 7371
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20051231
FILE DATE: 20060221
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are a leading global provider of operations support systems (OSS) software solutions that help communications service providers manage their networks and services. Our order management, inventory management, service activation and network mediation products and services automate service providers business processes across network planning and engineering, operations and customer care. Our customers successfully use MetaSolv products to introduce new services more easily, reduce service delivery times, reduce operating expenses, and optimize return on capital expenditures. All of our revenues come from the sale of software licenses, related professional services, and support of our software. Our business was founded in 1992, and soon afterward we began to build order processing software to help service providers needing to connect local telephone service networks with long distance service networks. By 1999, the year we became a publicly held company, we had evolved into a leading provider of order management and inventory management software for service providers offering voice and data communications services over both traditional communications networks and internet based networks. During that period our customer base was largely composed of competitive local exchange companies in the United States. The communications market downturn in 2000 through 2001 saw the departure of many of these customers from the marketplace, as funding for competitive local exchange carriers declined severely. In 2002 and 2003, we extended our product portfolio to include service activation and network mediation products, through successive acquisitions of Nortel Networks Service Commerce Division (2002) and Orchestream Holdings plc (2003). These acquisitions also provided MetaSolv with a significant worldwide expansion of our customer base, operations capabilities and staff of skilled employees. We have continued that expansion with organic operating growth in 2004 and 2005. Today we have offices in 14 locations around the world, serving approximately 170 customers in over 50 countries, and are internationally recognized as a global leader in OSS software for next generation communications service providers. We expect worldwide use of converged, multi service IP based infrastructure for both mobile and fixed environments will continue to increase, and that overall growing demand for voice and data services will drive increasing demand for our products and services. We continue to invest in research and development of our products, particularly in the areas of network resource management and service activation capabilities, in order to meet the requirements of our customers and be well positioned for future growth. We believe our product portfolio, our customer base, our people, and our continued investment and focus on network resource management, service activation and network mediation position us well to provide end to end service fulfillment capabilities to both leading and emerging communications service providers around the world. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We prepare financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect significantly the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. For example, estimates are used in the accounting for the allowance for doubtful accounts, contingencies, restructuring costs, realizability of tax assets, stock compensation expense and the probability of achieving performance awards, and other special charges. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Our software licensing and professional services agreements with customers typically have terms and conditions that are described in signed orders and a master agreement with each customer. Our sales for a given period typically involve large financial commitments from a relatively small number of customers. Accordingly, delays in the completion of sales during a quarter may negatively impact revenues in that quarter. Consistent with industry practice, we sometimes agree to bill our license fees in more than one installment over extended periods. 27 Table of Contents When installments extend beyond six months, amounts not due immediately are deferred and recorded as revenue when payments are due, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Substantially all of the Companys revenues are derived from providing (i) licenses of our software; (ii) post contract customer support, otherwise known as maintenance; and (iii) professional services, including implementation and training services. The Company licenses its software in multiple element arrangements in which the customer typically purchases a combination of (i) its software products, (ii) a maintenance arrangement, which is generally priced as a percentage of the software license fees and provides for technical support and product updates over a period of one year, and (iii) a professional services arrangement on either a fixed price, or a time and materials basis. The Company recognizes revenue using the residual method pursuant to the requirements of Statement of Position No. 97 2 Software Revenue Recognition (SOP 97 2), as amended by Statement of Position No. 98 9, Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Arrangements. Under the residual method, revenue is recognized in a multiple element arrangement when company specific objective evidence of fair value exists for all of the undelivered elements (i.e., professional services and maintenance) in the arrangement, but does not exist for one of the delivered elements in the arrangement (i.e., the software product). The Company allocates revenue to each element in the arrangement based on its respective fair value, with the fair value determined by the price charged when that element is sold separately. The Company defers revenue for the fair value of its undelivered elements (e.g., professional services and maintenance) and recognizes revenue for the remainder of the arrangement fee attributable to the delivered elements (i.e., software product) when the basic criteria in SOP 97 2 have been met. The Company determines the fair value of the maintenance portion of the arrangement based on the renewal price of the maintenance charged to the customer based on full deployment of the licensed software products and the fair value of the professional services portion of the arrangement based on the hourly rates that the Company charges for these services when sold independently from a software license. If evidence of fair value cannot be established for the undelivered elements of a license agreement, the entire amount of revenue from the arrangement is deferred and recognized over the period that these elements are delivered. In addition to evaluating the fair value of each element of the arrangement, the Company evaluates whether the elements can be separated into separate accounting units under SOP 97 2. In making this determination, the Company considers the nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Since we implement some of our services on a fixed fee basis, if we incur more costs than we estimated, our profitability will suffer. Our process for tracking progress to completion on such arrangements is through individual detailed project plans and periodic review of labor hours incurred compared to estimated hours to complete the project. When estimates of costs to complete the project indicate that a loss will be incurred, such losses are recognized immediately. Any estimation process, including those used in preparing contract accounting models, involves inherent risk. To the extent that our estimates of revenues and expenses on these contracts change periodically in the normal course of business, due to the modifications of our contractual arrangements or changes in cost, such changes would be reflected in the results of operations as a change in accounting estimate in the period the revisions are determined. Maintenance revenues consist of income from software upgrades and support services for our customers. Our software maintenance agreements are typically contracted on an annual subscription basis and include both customer support and the right to product updates. 28 Table of Contents We normally ship our software and perform services shortly after we receive orders. As a result, our quarterly financial results are largely dependent on orders received during that period. We recognize revenue only in cases where we believe collection is probable. In situations where collection is doubtful or when we have indications that a customer is facing financial difficulty, we recognize revenue as cash payments are received. In addition, for customers not on the cash basis of accounting, we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the expected collectibility of accounts receivable. We regularly review the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts through identification of specific receivables where it is expected that payment will not be received, in addition to establishing a general reserve based upon our collection history that is applied to all amounts that are not specifically identified. If there is a deterioration of a major customers credit worthiness or actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due us could be adversely affected. The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate of the ultimate recovery of accounts receivable as of the reporting date. Changes may occur in the future that may cause us to reassess the collectibility of amounts and at which time we may need to reduce or provide additional allowances in excess of that currently provided. We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets by projecting whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we carry a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which are related primarily to net deductible temporary differences, tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards. We evaluate a variety of factors in determining the amount of the deferred income tax assets to be recognized pursuant to SFAS No 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, including our earnings history, the number of years our operating loss and tax credits can be carried forward, the existence of taxable temporary differences, near term earnings expectations, and the highly competitive nature of the communications industry and its potential impact on our business. As a result of these analyses we have continued to reserve all of our deferred tax assets for which we do not expect to realize a benefit. We evaluate our long lived assets, including acquired intangibles, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of any assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of any asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Results of Operations MetaSolvs financial results improved substantially during the year 2005. Revenue in 2005 increased 13% over 2004 with improvement in all of our major product groups. Our net loss in 2005 was less than one third the loss in 2004 and we achieved positive net income in the fourth quarter, and positive cash flow from operations for the year. Our improved profitability resulted from the increase in revenue coupled with corporate wide cost reductions. These cost reductions included increased utilization of lower cost offshore labor for more routine product development, reducing our investment in non strategic areas, and staffing reductions in administrative and management functions. We also raised $21.4 million dollars in a private placement of equity securities during the fourth quarter, which improves our ability to execute potential strategic opportunities that would accelerate growth in shareholder value. We believe our current products, employees and resources position us well for profitable growth in 2006. 29 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by certain line items in our statements of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues: License 30 % 30 % 28 % Services 28 % 23 % 22 % Maintenance 43 % 48 % 50 % Total revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues: License 1 % 1 % 2 % Services and maintenance 43 % 40 % 42 % Amortization and impairment of intangible assets 2 % 5 % 8 % Total cost of revenues 46 % 45 % 51 % Gross profit 54 % 55 % 49 % Operating expenses: Research and development 21 % 26 % 37 % Sales and marketing 24 % 28 % 32 % General and administrative 10 % 14 % 19 % Purchased in process research and development % % 2 % Restructuring and other costs 2 % 6 % 11 % Goodwill impairment % % 3 % Total operating expenses 58 % 73 % 103 % Loss from operations (4 %) (19 %) (55 %) Interest and other income, net 1 % 1 % 1 % Unrealized gain on fair value of warrants % % % Gain (loss) on investments % % % Loss before taxes (3 %) (19 %) (53 %) Income tax expense 1 % 1 % 18 % Net loss (5 %) (20 %) (71 %) 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 Revenues Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $91.8 million, representing a 13% increase from $81.2 million in 2004. The increase in revenues between these periods resulted from a 39% increase in services revenue, 13% higher sales of software licenses, and a 1% increase in maintenance revenues. License fees. License revenues in 2005 increased 13% to $27.2 million, compared to $24.0 million in 2004. The increase in license revenue is primarily attributed to improved sales of network resource management software. Compared to 2004, the size of our average license sale increased 34% while the number of license sales declined 16%, reflecting relatively larger solutions for major communications providers. Because the majority of our license sales are competitively bid, and each customer implementation is unique, price comparisons between periods are not meaningful. License sales of our products are highly dependent on capital spending by communications service providers to improve their operating support systems infrastructure. We believe the strength of our product portfolio positions us well to initiate new deployments and extend deployments at existing customers. 30 Table of Contents Services. Services revenues are generated from technical consulting and educational training classes related to our license products. Revenues from services increased 39% to $25.6 million in 2005, from $18.3 million in 2004. The services revenue increase is attributed to an increase in the number of large consulting engagements at tier one communications service providers. We expect growth in services revenues to be more moderate in 2006, based on our current pipeline of opportunities. Maintenance. Maintenance revenues consist of post contract customer support, including unspecified license product updates. Maintenance revenues increased 1% to $39.1 million in 2005, from $38.8 million in 2004. The increase in maintenance is primarily due to improved sales of our activation and network resource management software products during 2004 and 2005, partially offset by customer attrition primarily due to corporate consolidations. Future growth of maintenance revenues is largely dependent on our retention of existing customers, and new license sales that add recurring maintenance revenues in annually renewable agreements. Concentration of revenues. As of December 31, 2005, our active customer list included approximately 170 communications service providers worldwide, including approximately two thirds of the worlds 30 largest providers. During 2005, our top ten customers represented 51% of our total revenue, with our two largest customers, British Telecommunications and Sprint, representing 14% and 11% of our total revenue, respectively. In 2004, our top ten customers represented 44% of our total revenues. In any given year we generally derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of relatively large sales. A loss or significant decrease in the sale of products and services to any customer from whom we received a high percentage of our total revenues during a recent year is likely to have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that as the service provider market continues to consolidate, our concentration of revenues may increase. International revenues. During 2005, we recognized $51.3 million in revenues from sources outside the United States compared to $47.2 million in 2004, representing 56% and 58% of revenue in each period, respectively. Changes in currency rates of exchange from 2004 to 2005 improved our 2005 revenues approximately $0.8 million, primarily due to the relative strengthening of the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real compared to the U.S. dollar. Cost of Revenues License costs. License cost of revenues consists primarily of royalties for third party software and support sold in conjunction with our products. License costs were $0.7 million in 2005 and $0.9 million in 2004, representing 3% and 4% of license revenues in each period, respectively. The decrease in license costs in 2005 in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to the mix of products sold in each period. Royalties on individual third party license products range from zero to approximately 50% of revenue for each product sold. The majority of our sales incur royalties of less than 10%. We plan to continue the use of third party software where it provides an advantage for our customers. While this plan lowers our overall product development cost, it may increase our cost of license revenues, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of revenues. Services and maintenance costs. Services and maintenance cost of revenues consists of expenses to provide consulting, training and post contract customer support services. These costs include compensation and related expenses for our employees and fees for third party consultants who provide services for our customers under subcontractor arrangements. Service and maintenance costs were $39.8 million in 2005, up from $32.3 million in 2004, representing 62% and 57% of service and maintenance revenues in each period, respectively. The increase in service costs in 2005 31 Table of Contents was primarily due to higher staffing costs related to growth in services revenues. Service margins in 2005 were lower than in 2004 due to the relatively higher growth in consulting services revenues on which we yield a lower margin than on maintenance. Amortization and Impairment of Intangible Assets. The value assigned to intangible assets, primarily technology rights, is amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets using the greater of straight line or the ratio that current gross revenues related to those assets bears to the total current and anticipated future gross revenues related to those assets. The original estimated useful lives of these assets range from nine months to sixty months. In 2005, amortization of intangible assets totaled $1.7 million, compared to $3.7 million in 2004. The decrease in amortization expense between 2005 and 2004 is due to continued completion of the amortization of certain intangibles from the acquisition of OSS assets from Nortel Networks in 2002 and completion of amortization of certain intangibles from the Orchestream acquisition in 2003. Amortization expense is expected to decrease to approximately $0.6 million in 2006. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to our staff of software developers, contracted development and the associated infrastructure required to develop our software products. During 2005, research and development expenses were $19.5 million, compared to $21.4 million in 2004, representing 21% and 26% of total revenues in each period, respectively. The year to year decrease in research and development expense was primarily due to a 9% decrease in employee related costs, partially offset by a 10% increase in contract labor and a $0.8 million unfavorable impact from currency exchange rates between the U.S. and Canadian dollar. We expect to continue lowering our development costs by shifting many routine tasks to offshore development resources. As a percentage of revenue, the decrease in research and development expense between 2005 and 2004 was due to the 13% increase in revenue coupled with the 9% decrease in expense. During 2005, our research and development investments were focused on our core competencies of network resource management, service activation and network mediation, in support of mobility, internet protocol (IP) and voice over IP (VOIP) domains. Additionally, we are investing to ease integration for our customers, enabling rapid flow through of service requests not only within our portfolio but between MetaSolv products and other business systems, to further automate our customers business processes and lower their overall cost of doing business. Our product development methodology generally establishes technological feasibility near the end of the development process, when we have a working model. Costs incurred after the development of a working model and prior to product release are insignificant. Accordingly, we have not capitalized any software development costs. From 2003 to 2005 we have reduced our research and development costs in response to market conditions. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions, travel, trade shows, and other related expenses required to sell our software. In 2005, sales and marketing expenses decreased slightly to $22.3 million from $22.6 million in 2004, representing 24% and 28% of revenues in each period, respectively. The decrease in sales and marketing expense in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to fewer staff in our North American sales operation, partially offset by 7% higher commission expense related to the increase in revenue, and a $0.4 million increase due to unfavorable currency exchange rates. We expect sales and marketing costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in resources devoted to increasing revenues outside the United States. 32 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses consist of costs for finance and accounting, legal, human resources, information systems, facilities, bad debt expense, and corporate management not directly allocated to other departments. General and administrative expenses in 2005 decreased 12% to $9.6 million, compared to $11.0 million in 2004, representing 10% and 14% of revenues in each period, respectively. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the settlement of a bankruptcy claim that resulted in a net credit to bad debt expense of approximately $0.8 million in 2005, and cost reductions in facilities expenses of $0.6 million. We expect to continue to reduce our general and administrative expenses in future periods. Restructuring and other Costs. Restructuring and other costs during 2005 totaled $2.2 million, and was comprised of $1.2 million related to staffing reductions of approximately 30 employees, primarily in overhead functions and redundant engineering positions, a $1.1 million reduction in sublease assumptions for vacant space, and a $0.2 million credit related to a previous acquisition. The staffing reductions are expected to result in annual cost savings of approximately $3 million. Restructuring and other costs during 2004 totaled $4.5 million, comprised of $1.9 million for a reduction of 65 positions, $1.7 million related to consolidation of facilities and $0.9 million in stock compensation expense related to a former executive. The estimated annualized cost savings from these reductions was approximately $7 million. All severance payments are expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2006. The lease payments will continue through 2010 and will be partially offset through sublease agreements. Interest and Other Income, Net In 2005, interest and other income, net, primarily consisting of interest income and interest expense, was $1.1 million, compared to $0.5 million in 2004. The increase in interest and other income was primarily due to higher cash and marketable securities balances and improved interest yields on our cash and marketable securities. Gain (loss) on Investments During the fourth quarter of 2004, we determined that the decline in the fair value of an equity investment in a private company below its carrying value was other than temporary. Accordingly, we recorded a non cash charge of $0.3 million to write down the value of the investment. During the third quarter of 2005, we wrote off the remaining $0.1 million of this investment. Income Tax Expense We recorded income tax expense of $1.4 million in 2005 and $0.9 million in 2004. Income tax expense in both 2005 and 2004 consisted primarily of foreign withholding tax provisions. These provisions are related to sales in countries that impose a withholding tax on funds transferred out of the country to companies that do not have a physical presence within that country. These withholding taxes are difficult to predict due to changes in geographic revenue mix, and are not based on our pre tax income or loss. As a result, our income tax rate may not bear any relationship to our consolidated taxable income. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109), deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial reporting and the tax basis of assets and liabilities which are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. SFAS 109 provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based upon the available evidence, which included our operating performance and projections for near term future performance, we continue to fully reserve our 33 Table of Contents deferred tax assets. We believe that, when taxable income is generated, the reversal of this valuation reserve will result in a tax provision that will be lower than the expected tax rate based on the statutory U.S. federal tax rate. 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Revenues Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $81.2 million, representing a 2% increase from $79.5 million in 2003. The increase in revenues between these periods resulted from higher sales of software licenses and related services, while maintenance revenues declined slightly. License fees. License revenues in 2004 increased 8% to $24.0 million, compared to $22.2 million in 2003. The increase in license revenue is primarily attributed to more sales of network resource management software licenses following release of our M6 solution, and also due to higher sales of network mediation products. Services. Services revenues are generated from technical consulting and educational training classes related to our license products. Revenues from services increased 4% to $18.3 million in 2004 from $17.7 million in 2003. The increase in consulting and education revenues resulted from a larger number of customer engagements supporting the increase in license sales. Maintenance. Maintenance revenues consist of post contract customer support, including unspecified license product updates. Maintenance revenues decreased 2% to $38.8 million in 2004, from $39.7 million in 2003. The decrease in maintenance revenues is primarily due to an arrangement to provide support to a customer for a third party software product on a resale basis in 2003. In 2004 this maintenance was contracted directly between the third party provider and the customer. Excluding the resale of third party maintenance in 2003, maintenance revenues in 2004 were approximately equal to maintenance revenues in 2003. Concentration of Revenues. As of December 31, 2004, our active customer list included nearly half of the worlds 100 largest providers. During 2004, our top ten customers represented 44% of our total revenue with our largest single customer, British Telecommunications, accounting for 11% of revenues. International Revenues. During 2004, we recognized $47.2 million in revenues from sources outside the United States compared to $43.9 million in 2003, representing 58% and 55% of revenue in each period, respectively. The growth in international revenues during 2004 was largely due to an estimated $2.7 million favorable impact from the strengthened value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, and also to our further $1.7 million increased penetration into European, Asian and Latin American markets. MetaSolvs revenue is derived from customers in approximately 55 countries, and approximately 35% of our worldwide revenues are transacted in foreign currencies, primarily British pounds, Euros, and Canadian dollars. Cost of Revenues License Costs. License cost of revenues consists primarily of royalties for third party software and support sold in conjunction with our products. License costs were $0.9 million in 2004 and $1.3 million in 2003, representing 4% and 6% of license revenues in each period, respectively. The decrease in license costs in 2004 in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to the mix of products sold in each period. Royalties on individual third party license products range from zero to approximately 50% of revenue for each product sold. The majority of our products incur royalties of less than 10%. Service Costs. Service cost of revenues consists of expenses to provide consulting, training and maintenance services. These costs include compensation and related expenses for employees and fees for third party consultants who provide services for our customers under subcontractor arrangements. Service costs were $32.3 million in 2004, down from $33.2 million in 2003, representing 57% and 58% of service revenues in each period, respectively. The decrease in service costs in 2004 was primarily due to a 34 Table of Contents reduction in professional consulting costs of $6.0 million, partially offset by a $2.6 million increase in subcontractor costs and a $0.6 million increase in maintenance related engineering costs. These changes in cost include a $1.0 million adverse impact from foreign currency exchange rates. Service margins in 2004 improved over 2003 due to improved utilization of our own consulting resources and use of subcontracting services where they lower our cost. Amortization and Impairment of Intangible Assets. The value assigned to intangible assets, primarily technology rights, is amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets using the greater of straight line or the ratio that current gross revenues related to those assets bears to the total current and anticipated future gross revenues related to those assets. The original estimated useful lives of these assets range from nine months to sixty months. In 2004, amortization of intangible assets totaled $3.7 million, compared to $6.5 million in 2003. The decrease in amortization expense between 2004 and 2003 is due to completion of the amortization of certain intangibles from the acquisition of OSS assets from Nortel Networks in 2002. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to our staff of software developers, contracted development and the associated infrastructure required to support product development. During 2004, research and development expenses decreased 28% to $21.4 million from $29.6 million in 2003, representing 26% and 37% of total revenues in each period, respectively. The year to year decrease in research and development expense was primarily due to consolidation of our European development function into our Canadian operations, partially offset by a $0.6 million cost increase from unfavorable exchange rates between the U.S. and Canadian dollar. Approximately half of our development staff is located in Canada. During 2004, our research and development investments were focused on our core competencies of network resource management, service activation and network mediation, in support of mobility, internet protocol (IP) and voice over IP (VOIP) domains. Additionally, we are investing to ease integration for our customers, enabling rapid flow through of service requests not only within our portfolio but between MetaSolv products and other business systems, to further automate our customers business processes and lower their overall cost of doing business. Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions, travel, trade shows and other related expenses required to sell our software. In 2004, sales and marketing expenses decreased 11% to $22.6 million from $25.3 million in 2003, representing 28% and 32% of revenues in each period, respectively. The decrease in sales and marketing expense in 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to 8% lower staffing and related expenses, partially offset by an unfavorable $1.1 million impact from currency exchange rates. The staffing reductions achieved alignment of resources with expected market conditions. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses consist of costs for finance and accounting, legal, human resources, information systems, facilities, bad debt expense, and corporate management not directly allocated to other departments. General and administrative expenses in 2004 decreased 25% to $11.0 million, compared to $14.7 million in 2003, representing 14% and 19% of revenues in each period, respectively. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to 13% lower staffing in administrative functions, which resulted in a $0.8 million reduction in costs; cost reductions in facilities, telecommunications expenses and other expenses of approximately $0.7 million and a $1.2 million decrease in the allowance for doubtful accounts due to improved collection performance. 35 Table of Contents Restructuring and other Costs. Restructuring and other costs during 2004 totaled $4.5 million, comprised of $1.9 million for a reduction of 65 positions, $1.7 million related to consolidation of facilities and $0.9 million in stock compensation expense related to a former executive. The estimated annualized cost savings from these reductions is approximately $7 million. During 2003, we restructured our operations to align costs with expected market conditions, and to integrate and rationalize the acquired Orchestream operations with those already in house. These charges consisted of $4.4 million for reduction in force of approximately 135 positions, approximately $4.8 million for the consolidation of space at our US headquarters location, in Canada and in the United Kingdom, and a $0.8 million nonrecurring adjustment to prepaid royalties, partially offset by a reduction in accrued liabilities of approximately $1.4 million related primarily to adjustments to liabilities assumed as part of our previous acquisitions. All severance payments were completed by the end of 2005. The lease payments will continue through 2010 and they will be partially offset through sublease agreements. Interest and Other Income, Net In 2004, interest and other income, net, primarily consisting of interest income and interest expense, was $0.5 million, compared to $1.1 million in 2003. The decrease in interest and other income was due primarily to $0.3 million in realized currency losses and a $0.3 million decline in interest income due a decline in cash and marketable securities balances upon which we receive interest income. Gain (loss) on Investments During the fourth quarter of 2004, we determined that the decline in the fair value of an equity investment in a private company below its carrying value was other than temporary. Accordingly, we recorded a non cash charge of $0.3 million to write down the value of the investment. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) We recorded income tax expense of $0.9 million in 2004 and $14.4 million in 2003. The 2004 income tax expense consisted primarily of foreign withholding tax provisions. The relatively high income tax expense in 2003 is due to a revaluation of our deferred tax assets. Under SFAS 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. SFAS 109 provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based upon the available evidence at the end of 2003, which included our recent operating performance and projections for near term future performance, we recorded a valuation reserve against our remaining deferred tax assets. If taxable income is generated in the future, the reversal of this valuation reserve will result in a tax provision that will be lower than the expected tax rate based on the statutory US federal tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2005, our primary sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $58.2 million and representing 69% of total assets. We invest our cash in excess of current operating requirements in short and intermediate term investment grade securities that are available for sale as needed. Total cash and marketable securities increased $22.9 million during 2005, from a balance of $35.2 million at December 31, 2004. The increase in cash and marketable securities during 2005 resulted primarily from issuance of additional common stock and cash generated from operations. Cash generated by operating activities during 2005 was $1.8 million, consisting of our $4.3 million operating loss adjusted for non cash charges of $5.9 million for amortization of intangible assets, depreciation, and stock compensation expense, and changes in working capital components of approximately $0.2 million. 36 Table of Contents Cash used in investing activities during 2005 was $23.1 million. We purchased a net of $21.5 million of marketable securities and invested $1.6 million in capital expenditures primarily for computer related equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $22.6 million in 2005. In October 2005 we completed a private placement of 7,666,667 shares of our common stock along with 3,833,333 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, exercisable at a price of $4.00 per share, which resulted in net proceeds of $21.4 million. The warrant agreement is considered to be a derivative and has been classified as a liability at fair value in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. The unregistered issued shares of common stock have been classified as temporary equity due to the liquidated damages provisions in the purchase agreements. Subsequent to the end of the year, we negotiated with each of the purchasers a cap in the payment of liquidated damages equal to a maximum of 10% of the aggregate purchase price of each purchasers securities. Following the agreement from each investor to limit the amount of liquidated damages, we believe that the maximum 10% payment for liquidated damages reflects a reasonable estimate of the difference in fair values between registered and unregistered shares. Accordingly, subsequent to year end, both the warrants and the common stock will be reclassified as permanent equity. In addition to the proceeds from the private placement, we received $1.5 million from the exercise of employee stock options during the year, which was partially offset by withholding sufficient shares to make payment of $0.3 million in withholding tax obligations of employees. Currency exchange rates improved our cash position approximately $0.2 million during the year 2005. We believe that our current cash and marketable securities balances, together with projected cash flows to be generated by operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. From time to time we evaluate potential acquisitions and other strategic relationships with complementary businesses, products and technologies. Should cash balances be insufficient to meet our long term business objectives, or to complete an acquisition, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities. The decision to sell additional equity or debt securities could be made at any time and could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not use off balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities or related parties, nor do we use other forms of off balance sheet arrangements such as research and development arrangements. Accordingly, our liquidity and capital resources are not subject to off balance sheet risks from unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2005, we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. Contractual Obligations We had no unusual capital commitments at December 31, 2005, and our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases. We had outstanding contractual obligations for cumulative lease payments of approximately $17.2 million through 2010, which will be retired within the ordinary course of business, including approximately $5.5 million in leases for properties that we no longer occupy. We have no abnormal contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and our principal commitments consist of obligations under non cancelable operating leases as shown in the following table (in thousands): Total Payments Due By Period Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating Leases United States $ 14,228 $ 2,951 $ 8,606 $ 2,671 $ International 3,019 1,751 1,268 Totals $ 17,247 $ 4,702 $ 9,874 $ 2,671 $ 37 Table of Contents New Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123(R), Share Based Payment, which was a revision of SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. This statement supersedes APB Option 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005. This Statement requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award (with limited exceptions). That cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). No compensation cost is recognized for equity instruments for which employees do not render the requisite service. Employee share purchase plans will not result in recognition of compensation cost if certain conditions are met; those conditions are much the same as the related conditions in SFAS 123. We are planning to adopt this new standard in the first quarter of 2006. The estimated impact of this change in accounting will be an increase in stock compensation costs for existing grants of approximately $1.0 million per quarter in 2006. In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, to clarify the requirement to record liabilities stemming from a legal obligation to clean up and retire fixed assets, such as a plant or factory, when an asset retirement depends on a future event. We evaluated the requirements of FIN 47 and concluded that the application of FIN 47 does not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our exposure to market risk principally relates to changes in interest rates that may affect our fixed income investments and our exposure to adverse movements in foreign exchange rates. (a) Fixed Income Investments The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. Our exposure to market risks for changes in interest rates relate primarily to investments in debt securities issued by U.S. government agencies and corporate debt securities. We place our investments with high quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of our credit exposure to any one issuer. Our general policy is to limit the risk of principal loss and ensure the safety of invested funds by limiting market and credit risk. All investments with three months or less to maturity at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents; investments with maturities at the date of purchase between three and twelve months are considered to be short term investments; investments with maturities in excess of twelve months are considered to be long term investments. At December 31, 2005, the weighted average pre tax yield on the investment portfolio was approximately 3.53%. Market risk related to these investments can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near term adverse movement of 10% in short term market interest rates. If these rates average 10% more or less in 2006 than in 2005, there would be no material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position. (b) Foreign Currency We operate internationally and transact business in various foreign currencies. As we continue to expand our international business, we are subject to increasing exposure from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. During 2005 we transacted approximately 35% of our revenues in foreign currencies, primarily British pounds, Euros, and Canadian dollars. Because we incur expenses in these currencies, we benefit from a natural hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. We have chosen not to hedge our foreign currency exposure, and we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. 38 Table of Contents While changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on the Companys financial operations in 2005, this could change at any point in the future in which our revenues in foreign currency differ from expenses by a material amount. In addition, although changes in foreign exchange rates may not have a material impact on our financial operations, the impact on individual line items within our financial statements could be significant. Market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near term movement of 10% in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Estimated in this way, if these rates were to average 10% more or less in 2006 than they did in 2005, we believe there would be no material impact on our results of operations or financial position. 39 Table of Contents 
</SECTION>
