<HEADER>
COMPANY NAME: AVX Corp
CIK: 0000859163
SIC: 3670
FORM TYPE: 10-K
REPORT PERIOD END DATE: 20160331
FILE DATE: 20160520
</HEADER>
<SECTION>
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview AVX Corporation is a leading worldwide manufacturer and supplier and reseller of a broad line of passive electronic components and interconnect products. Electronic components and connector products manufactured or resold by AVX are used in virtually all types of electronic products, including those in telecommunications, automotive, transportation, energy harvesting, consumer electronics, military/aerospace, medical, computer, and industrial markets. We have five main product groups: Ceramic Components, Tantalum Components, Advanced Components, Interconnect Products, and Kyocera Electronic Devices. These product lines are organized into three reportable segments: Passive Components, Interconnect, and KED Resale. Consolidated revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 were $1,195.5 million with net income of $101.5 million compared to consolidated revenues of $1,353.2 million with net income of $225.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. During fiscal 2016, we saw a decrease in sales due to a number of factors, including, lower unit sales due to soft global economic conditions and our customers inventory reduction initiatives, the effect of the strength of the U.S. dollar versus the Japanese Yen and Euro on reported sales, and the transfer of Kyocera manufactured connector product resale activity in the Asian region, previously handled by AVX, to Kyocera effective April 1, 2015. Gross profit margins declined slightly year over year to 24.2% from 24.3%, and operating results were unfavorably impacted by certain environmental and legal charges discussed below. In fiscal 2016, we generated $166.4 million of cash from operating activities. We used cash generated from operations to fund $2.1 million of general working capital requirements and $48.1 million of property and equipment purchases. In addition, to enhance shareholder value, we spent $10.2 million to repurchase shares of our common stock on the market and paid dividends of $70.5 million during fiscal year 2016. Our financial position remains strong with approximately $1.0 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and securities investments and no borrowings as of March 31, 2016. We remain committed to investing in new products and improvements to our production processes as well as continued investment in research, development, and engineering in order to provide our customers with new generations of passive component and interconnect product solutions. We are currently producing more sophisticated electronic component parts necessitated by the breadth and increase in functionality of the electronic devices and increased electronic content in products such as smart phones, wearable electronic devices, tablets, ultrabooks, netbooks, automobiles, and renewable energy products that are manufactured by our customers. As a result, we have continued our focus on value added advanced products and interconnect solutions to serve this expanding market. We are also focused on controlling and reducing costs to accommodate market forces and offset rising operating costs. We do this by investing in automated manufacturing technologies, enhancing manufacturing materials and efficiencies, and rationalizing our production capabilities around the world. We believe that these strategies enable us to adapt quickly and benefit as market conditions change in order to provide shareholder value. In addition, we may, from time to time, consider strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses in order to expand our product offerings or otherwise improve our market position. We evaluate potential acquisitions in order to position ourselves to take advantage of profitable growth opportunities. Outlook Near Term: With continuing uncertain global geopolitical and economic conditions, it is difficult to quantify expectations for fiscal 2017. Near term results for us will depend on the impact of the overall global geopolitical and economic conditions and their impact on telecommunications, information technology hardware, automotive, consumer electronics, and other electronic markets. Looking ahead, visibility is limited and forecasting is a challenge due to volatility and uncertainty in global government and consumer spending. We expect to see typical pricing pressure in the markets we serve due to competitive activity. In response to anticipated market conditions, we expect to continue to focus on the sale of higher margin value added electronic components to support todays advanced electronic devices and cost management to maximize earnings potential. We also continue to focus on process improvements and enhanced production capabilities in conjunction with product line rationalizations. If current global geopolitical and economic conditions worsen, the overall impact on our customers as well as end user demand for electronic products could have a significant adverse impact on our near term results. 28 Long Term: Although there is uncertainty and caution in the near term market as a result of the current global geopolitical and economic conditions, we continue to see opportunities for long term growth and profitability improvement due to: (a) a projected increase in the long term worldwide demand for more sophisticated electronic devices, which require electronic components such as the ones we sell, (b) cost reductions and improvements in our production processes, and (c) opportunities for growth in our Advanced Component and Interconnect product lines due to new products resulting from advances in component designs and our expanded production capabilities. We have fostered our financial health and the strength of our balance sheet. We remain confident that our strategies will enable our continued long term success. Results of Operations Year Ended March 31, 2016 compared to Year Ended March 31, 2015 Net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 were $1,195.5 million compared to $1,353.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. The table below represents product group revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016. Fiscal Year Ended March 31, Sales revenue (in thousands) 2014 2015 2016 Ceramic Components $ 193,978 $ 202,719 $ 176,502 Tantalum Components 394,119 355,974 311,888 Advanced Components 357,900 359,315 333,693 Total Passive Components 945,997 918,008 822,083 KDP and KCD Resale 293,048 229,869 238,086 KCP Resale Connectors 64,680 70,741 23,751 Total KED Resale 357,728 300,610 261,837 Interconnect 138,879 134,610 111,610 Total Revenue $ 1,442,604 $ 1,353,228 $ 1,195,529 Passive Component sales were $822.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 compared to $918.0 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. The sales decrease in Passive Components reflects a lower overall market demand across most of our product market segments related to soft global economic conditions, the unfavorable impact on reported sales of currency exchange as the U.S. dollar strengthened against certain foreign currencies and our continued focus on the sale of value added and higher capacitance components with higher margin opportunities and lower sales volumes rather than higher volume commodity components when compared to the same period last year. Lower sales is also reflective of our customers cautious inventory management programs during the current fiscal year. KDP and KCD Resale sales were $238.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 compared to $229.9 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. This increase is primarily attributable to higher demand from our telecommunications and cellular device customers in the current year partially offset by the unfavorable impact on reported sales of the stronger U.S. dollar when compared to the Japanese Yen. 29 Total connector sales, including AVX Interconnect products and KCP Resale Connectors, were $135.4 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 compared to $205.4 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. This decrease was primarily attributable to Kyoceras decision to utilize their sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell their connector products in Asia. Kyocera notified AVX in February, 2014 of its intent, effective April 1, 2015, to market its connector products in Asia using Kyoceras sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products in Asia. Sales of Kyocera manufactured connector products in Asia were $1.1 million and $47.5 million with operating profit of $0.4 million and $1.9 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, respectively. For more information regarding AVXs relationship with Kyocera, see Relationship with Kyocera and Related Transactions below. In addition, there was a negative impact on reported sales resulting from the strength of the U.S. dollar when compared to the Japanese Yen and the Euro, partially offset by improved volumes to our automotive customers. Our sales to independent electronic distributors represented 45.0% of total net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, compared to 45.7% for fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Overall, distributor activity as a percentage of sales decreased slightly when compared to the same period in the prior year reflective of their cautious inventory management programs. Our sales to distributor customers may involve specific ship and debit and stock rotation programs for which sales allowances are recorded as reductions in sales. Such allowance charges decreased to $29.4 million, or 5.5% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 compared to $33.6 million, or 5.4% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Applications under such programs for fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $31.5 million and $34.4 million, respectively. Geographically, compared to the prior fiscal year, regional sales as a percentage of total sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 increased slightly in the Americas while decreasing slightly in Europe. Generally, all three geographic regions faced similar market conditions. Our Asian market sales were impacted Kyoceras aforementioned decision to utilize their sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell Kyocera manufactured connector products in this region. Sales in Asia remained 41.6% of total sales, while sales in the Americas increased slightly to 30.0% and sales in Europe decreased slightly to 28.4% of total sales. This compares to 41.6%, 29.7%, and 28.7% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the prior year, respectively. As a result of the strength of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, reported sales for the year ended March 31, 2016 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $51 million when compared to the prior year. Gross profit margin in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 decreased slightly to 24.2% of sales, or $289.1 million, compared to a gross profit margin of 24.3% of sales, or $328.6 million, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. This overall decrease in dollars and percentage is primarily a result of lower sales volumes and lower selling prices reflective of soft demand in the global marketplace when compared to the same period last year. The impact on gross margin due to lower selling prices was partially offset by our focus on the sale of value added and higher capacitance passive components with better margin opportunities than higher volume commodity components. Gross profit also benefited from lower manufacturing and overhead costs due to our focus on cost control and manufacturing efficiencies. In addition, the currency impact of a stronger U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies favorably impacted costs by approximately $59 million when compared to the same period last year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 were $119.8 million, or 10.0% of net sales, compared to $115.8 million, or 8.6% of net sales, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. The overall increase in selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to higher legal advisory fees partially offset by lower selling expenses as a result of lower sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. During the fiscal ended March 31, 2016, we recorded estimated litigation and settlement charges of $45.3 million related to the outcome of certain litigation and remediation challenges involving legacy environmental issues and intellectual property litigation. Effective September 30, 2015, a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (Settlement Agreement) was entered into with the City of New Bedford in settlement of the following two cases: DaRosa v. City of New Bedford and City of New Bedford, et al v. AVX Corporation both arising from contamination at certain property sites in the City of New Bedford. In accordance with the Settlement Agreement, AVX paid the sum of $6.5 million to the City of New Bedford in October 2015. Additionally, on January 26, 2016, in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v AVX Corporation, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to the plaintiff in the amount of $37.5 million. Also, during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we accrued a $1.3 million estimated charge related to a new environmental remediation demand related to a legacy environmental issue and a $0.4 million charge related to a recent jury finding with respect to an intellectual property lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp. 30 Profit from operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 decreased $88.8 million to $124.0 million compared to $212.8 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. This decrease is a result of the factors above. Other income increased $2.3 million to $8.2 million in fiscal 2016 compared to $5.9 million in fiscal 2015. This increase is primarily attributable to higher interest income resulting from an increase in the overall average balance of our cash and investments during fiscal 2016 when compared to fiscal 2015 and foreign currency exchange gains. The tax rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 was a tax rate of 23.2% compared to a tax benefit of (3.3%) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. For fiscal 2016 the rate of 23.2% is impacted by a reduction of income tax reserves related to the expiration of statutory periods with regard to certain income tax positions of approximately $4.4 million. Excluding such discrete items recorded during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, the effective tax rate would have been 26.5%. The tax rate for fiscal 2015 was impacted by net income tax benefits of $70.3 million primarily attributable to the reversal of valuation allowances of $50.0 million related to the forecasted future utilization of net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) in our European operations and net tax benefits of $17.5 million primarily due to the U.S. tax benefits related to the restructuring of certain foreign subsidiaries. Excluding such discrete items recorded during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, the effective tax rate would have been 28.9%. The gross NOLs related to the $50.0 million reversal of valuation allowances in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 were $149.9 million. The related tax benefits upon utilization of the NOLs are un expiring, however they are subject to annual utilization limitations. The realization of tax benefits due to the utilization of these NOLs could take an extended period of time to realize and are contingent upon the foreign subsidiarys continuing profitability. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 was $101.5 million compared to a $225.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Year Ended March 31, 2015 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2014 Net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 were $1,353.2 million compared to $1,442.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. The table below represents product group revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2014, and 2015. Fiscal Year Ended March 31, Sales revenue (in thousands) 2013 2014 2015 Ceramic Components $ 173,315 $ 193,978 $ 202,719 Tantalum Components 330,209 394,119 355,974 Advanced Components 346,543 357,900 359,315 Total Passive Components 850,067 945,997 918,008 KDP and KCD Resale 377,707 293,048 229,869 KCP Resale Connectors 61,809 64,680 70,741 Total KED Resale 439,516 357,728 300,610 Interconnect 124,817 138,879 134,610 Total Revenue $ 1,414,400 $ 1,442,604 $ 1,353,228 Passive Component sales were $918.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 compared to $946.0 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. The sales decrease in Passive Components, specifically Tantalum Components, reflects overall market demand and our continued focus on the sale of value added and higher capacitance components with better margin opportunities. Lower sales is also reflective of our customers management of inventory levels in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and the negative effects of currency exchange as the U.S. dollar strengthened against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese Yen and the Euro. The increase in sales of Ceramic and Advanced Components reflects the demand in the automotive, computer, industrial and telecommunications equipment markets for more sophisticated electronic components across global markets. 31 KDP and KCD Resale sales were $229.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 compared to $293.0 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. This decrease is primarily attributable to lower demand from, and inventory management by, our cellular device customers as well as the unfavorable impact due to the strength of the U.S. dollar when compared to the Japanese Yen. Total connector sales, including AVX Interconnect products and KCP Resale Connectors, were $205.4 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 compared to $203.6 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. This increase was primarily attributable to an increased demand in the automotive sector reflective of the increased electronic content in todays automobiles, partially offset by the negative impact on sales resulting from the strength of the U.S. dollar when compared to the Japanese Yen and the Euro. Kyocera notified AVX in February 2014 of its intent, effective April 1, 2015, to market its manufactured connector products in Asia using Kyoceras sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products in Asia. Sales of Kyocera connector products in Asia were $47.5 million and $44.9 million with operating profit of $1.9 million and $2.7 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively. Our sales to independent electronic distributors represented 45.7% of total net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, compared to 42.1% for fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Overall, distributor activity increased when compared to the same period in the prior year reflective of their end customer demand improvements. Our sales to distributor customers may involve specific ship and debit and stock rotation programs for which sales allowances are recorded as reductions in sales. Such allowance charges decreased to $33.6 million, or 5.4% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 compared to $40.7 million, or 6.7% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, reflecting stable selling price conditions, primarily in the Americas, due to balanced supply. Applications under such programs for fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were approximately $34.4 million and $38.3 million, respectively. Geographically, compared to the prior fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, sales increased in the Americas and Europe while Asia saw a decrease. The Asian market sales continued to reflect the lower KED Resale product sales in the telecommunications markets and the negative effect on sales primarily due to the strength of the U.S. dollar compared to the Japanese Yen. Sales in Asia represented 41.6% of total sales while sales in the Americas increased to 29.7% and sales in Europe increased to 28.7% of total sales, respectively. This compares to 45.7%, 28.0%, and 26.3% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the prior year, respectively. As a result of the strength of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, sales for the year ended March 31, 2015 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $28.1 million when compared to the prior year. Gross profit margin in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 increased to 24.3% of sales, or $328.6 million, compared to a gross profit margin of 19.3% of sales, or $278.8 million, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. This overall increase is primarily attributable to our focus on the sale of value added and higher capacitance passive component sales with better margin opportunities and lower manufacturing and overhead costs due to our focus on cost control and manufacturing efficiencies. When compared to the prior fiscal year, costs were favorably impacted by approximately $37.3 million due to the strength of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies. Selling, general, and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 were $115.8 million, or 8.6% of net sales, compared to $119.7 million, or 8.3% of net sales, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. The overall decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses reflects the impact of lower sales volumes and lower depreciation expense offset by higher professional fees for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Profit from operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 increased $53.6 million to $212.7 million compared to $159.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. This increase is a result of the factors above. Other income increased $1.7 million to $5.9 million in fiscal 2015 compared to $4.2 million in fiscal 2014. This increase is primarily attributable to higher interest income resulting from an increase in the overall average balance of our cash and investments during fiscal 2015 when compared to fiscal 2014. The tax rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was a tax benefit of (3.3%) compared to a tax rate of 22.2% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. The lower rate for fiscal 2015 is the result of net income tax benefits of $70.3 million primarily attributable to the reversal of valuation allowances of $50.0 million related to the forecasted future utilization of (NOLs) in our European operations and net tax benefits of $17.5 million primarily due to the U.S. tax benefits related to the restructuring of foreign subsidiaries. Excluding such discrete items recorded during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, the effective tax rate would have been 28.9%. For fiscal 2014, the rate of 22.2% is primarily due to reserve adjustments due to the expiration of tax periods allowed for the audit of certain prior year income tax returns and adjustments of approximately $4.5 million related 32 to prior period income tax accruals and estimates. Excluding such discrete items recorded during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, the effective tax rate would have been 29.9%. The gross NOLs related to the $50.0 million reversal of valuation allowances in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 are $149.9 million. The related tax benefits upon utilization of the NOLs are un expiring, however they are subject to annual utilization limitations. The realization of tax benefits due to the utilization of these NOLs could take an extended period of time to realize and are contingent upon the foreign subsidiarys continuing profitability. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 was $225.9 million compared to a $127.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity needs arise primarily from working capital requirements, dividends, capital expenditures, and acquisitions. Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand. As of March 31, 2016, we had a current ratio of 9.4 to 1, $1.0 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2,177.1 million of stockholders equity and no borrowings. As of March 31, 2016, we had cash, cash equivalents, and short term and long term investments in securities of $1.0 billion, of which $829.9 million was held outside the U.S. Liquidity is subject to many factors, such as normal business operations as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors that are beyond our control. Cash balances generated and held in foreign locations are used for their on going working capital, capital expenditure needs, and to support acquisitions. These balances are currently expected to be permanently reinvested outside the U.S. If these funds were needed for general corporate purposes in the U.S., we would incur significant income taxes to repatriate to the U.S. cash held in foreign locations. In addition, local government regulations may restrict our ability to move funds among various locations under certain circumstances. Management does not believe such restrictions would limit our ability to pursue our intended business strategies. Net cash provided by operating activities was $166.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, compared to cash provided by operations of $197.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and cash used in operations of $70.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Cash provided by operations was lower in fiscal 2016 compared to the same period last year primarily a result a final payment of $122.1 million made on May 26, 2015, related to the New Bedford Harbor environmental matters discussed below and other changes in working capital. Fiscal 2014 included two installment payments with respect to the settlement, approved by the United States District court on September 19, 2013, with the EPA and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts related to the harbor. October 18, 2013, we paid the initial settlement installment of $133.4 million, plus accrued interest. We prepaid a second settlement installment of $110.8 million, plus accrued interest on the remaining settlement amount on March 26, 2014. As noted above, we prepaid the remaining balance of $122.1 million, plus interest of $1.1 million, on May 26, 2015. Purchases of property and equipment totaled $48.1 million in fiscal 2016, $26.6 million in fiscal 2015, and $26.8 million in fiscal 2014. The increase in expenditures during fiscal 2016 were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in the Czech Republic, Mexico and Greenville, South Carolina as we expanded production capabilities of the passive component and interconnect product lines. We expect to continue to make strategic capital investments in our passive component and interconnect product lines and estimate that we will incur capital expenditures of approximately $36 million in fiscal 2017. The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end market demand. Historically, our funding has been internally generated through operations, investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities and cash on hand. We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of March 31, 2016, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean up costs, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the upcoming year. While changes in customer demand have an impact on our future cash requirements, changes in those requirements are mitigated by our ability to adjust manufacturing capabilities to meet increases or decreases in customer demand. Also, potential acquisitions, depending upon their size, could require the Company to utilize its current cash resources, or use 33 external borrowings. We do not anticipate any significant changes in our ability to generate cash flows or meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future. In fiscal 2016, 2015, and 2014, dividends of $70.5 million, $67.3 million, and $60.3 million, respectively, were paid to stockholders. On October 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of an additional 5,000,000 shares of our common stock. We purchased 761,145 shares at a cost of $10.2 million during fiscal 2016, 524,806 shares at a cost of $7.2 million during fiscal 2015, and 799,066 shares at a cost of $10.3 million during fiscal 2014. The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock and are available for general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2016, there were 3,423,438 shares that may yet be repurchased under this program. At March 31, 2016, we had contractual obligations for the construction of plants and acquisition of equipment aggregating approximately $18.9 million. We make contributions to our U.S. and international defined benefit plans as required under various pension funding regulations. Contributions are based on a percentage of pensionable wages or requirements necessary to satisfy long term funding obligations. We made contributions of $0.8 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and do not estimate that any contributions will be made during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017. We made contributions of $7.9 million to our international defined benefit plans during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and estimate that we will make contributions of approximately $7.3 million during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017. We have unfunded actuarially computed pension liabilities of approximately $9.1 million related to these defined benefit pension plans as of March 31, 2016. We are a lessee under longterm operating leases primarily for office space, plant, and equipment. Future minimum lease commitments under noncancelable operating leases as of March 31, 2016, were approximately $17.5 million. From time to time we enter into delivery contracts with selected suppliers for certain metals used in our production processes. The delivery contracts represent routine purchase orders for delivery within three months and payment is due upon receipt. We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state or local laws for clean up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination. Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or state regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean up activities. We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs. To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation. As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions. On October 10, 2012, the EPA, the United States, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and AVX announced that they had reached a financial settlement with respect to the EPAs ongoing clean up of the New Bedford Harbor in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the harbor). That agreement is contained in a Supplemental Consent Decree that modifies certain provisions of prior agreements related to clean up of the harbor, including elimination of the governments right to invoke certain reopener provisions in the future. Under the terms of the settlement, AVX was obligated to pay $366.3 million, plus interest computed from August 1, 2012, in three installments over a two year period for use by the EPA and the Commonwealth to complete the clean up of the harbor. On May 26, 2015, we prepaid the third and final settlement installment of $122.1 million, plus interest of $1.1 million. 34 On June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the Aerovox Site (the Site), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts. AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVXs federal law requirements. Agreements with the state regulatory authorities have yet to be concluded but are likely to include additional groundwater and soil remediation. We have a remaining accrual of $11.0 million at March 31, 2016, representing our estimate of the potential liability related to the remaining performance of environmental remediation actions at the Site using certain assumptions regarding the plan of remediation. Since additional sampling and analysis may cause the state regulatory authority, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, to require a more extensive and costly plan of remediation, until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site. We had total reserves of approximately $138.1 million and $16.8 million at March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2016, respectively, related to the various matters and specific sites discussed above. These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $127.2 million and $7.4 million in accrued expenses at March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2016, respectively, and $10.9 million and $9.4 million in other non current liabilities at March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2016, respectively. The amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are based on estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available. Also, uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, regulatory actions, technology, and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure. Accordingly, these costs could differ from our current estimates. Effective September 30, 2015 a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (Settlement Agreement) was entered into with the City of New Bedford in settlement of the following two cases: DaRosa v. City of New Bedford and City of New Bedford, et al v. AVX Corporation both arising from contamination at certain property sites in the City of New Bedford. In accordance with the Settlement Agreement, AVX paid the sum of $6.5 million to the City of New Bedford in October 2015. This Settlement Agreement releases AVX from any future actions by the City of New Bedford related to these cases or sites. On April 19, 2016, the Canadian Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (the MoE) issued a Directors Order naming AVX Corporation as well as others as responsible parties with respect to a location in Hamilton, Ontario that was the site of operations of Aerovox Canada, a former subsidiary of Aerovox Corporation, a predecessor of AVX. This Directors Order follows a draft order issued on November 4, 2015. AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX. At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law. AVX intends to contest any such course of action that may be taken by the MoE. We also operate on other sites that may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at sites during AVXs long history of manufacturing operations or prior to the start of operations by AVX. Even though we may have rights of indemnity for such environmental matters at certain sites, regulatory agencies in those jurisdictions may require us to address such issues. Once it becomes probable that we will incur costs in connection with remediation of a site and such costs can be reasonably estimated, we establish reserves or adjust our reserves for our projected share of these costs. A separate account receivable is recorded for any indemnified costs. Our environmental reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any possible future insurance recoveries, which are not expected to be significant, but do reflect a reasonable estimate of cost sharing at multiple party sites or indemnification of our liability by a third party. On April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v AVX Corporation. This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of nine Greatbatch patents. On January 26, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the first phase of a segmented trial and found damages to Greatbatch in the amount of $37.5 million. AVX is reviewing this initial verdict, consulting with its legal advisors on what action AVX may take in response, and continuing to litigate the rest of the case. On September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (ATC), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the District of Delaware captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp. This case alleges that certain products of ATCs infringe on a Presidio patent. On April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio in the amount of $2.2 million, which has been accrued as of March 31, 2016. AVX is reviewing the verdict and consulting with its legal advisors on what action AVX may take in response. 35 As of March 31, 2016, we had total reserves of $39.7 million with respect to the two intellectual property cases discussed above. The amounts recorded are based on estimated outcomes. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information that becomes available. Accordingly, these costs could differ from our current estimates. During the quarter ended September 30, 2014, AVX was named as a co defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia alleging violations of United States, Canadian, and state antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies are participants in alleged price fixing in the capacitor market. The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on October 2, 2014. During the quarter ended December 31, 2014, additional Canadian cases were filed in the provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. In addition, in the quarter ended September 30, 2015, AVX was named as a co defendant in two cases filed in the United States alleging violations of United States antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price fixing in the resistor market. These cases are at the initial stages. AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases. We are involved in other disputes and legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business. While we cannot predict the outcome of these other proceedings, we believe, based upon a review with legal counsel, that none of these proceedings will have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income (loss), or cash flows. However, we cannot be certain of the eventual outcome, and any adverse result in these or other matters that may arise from time to time, may harm our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income (loss), or cash flows. Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commitments The Company has the following contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2016 as noted below. FY 2018 FY 2020 Contractual Obligations (in thousands) Total FY 2017 FY 2019 FY 2021 Thereafter Operating Leases $ 17,502 $ 4,375 $ 6,486 $ 6,091 $ 550 Plant and Equipment $ 18,912 $ 18,557 $ 355 $ $ Table above does not include payments related to the settlement of the harbor disclosed above and in Note 12. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we made contributions of $4.2 million to Company sponsored retirement savings plans. Our contributions are partially based on employee contributions as a percentage of their salaries. Certain contributions by the Company are discretionary and are determined by the Board of Directors each year. We expect that our contributions for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 will be approximately $4.2 million. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we made contributions of $0.8 million and $7.2 million to our U.S. and international defined benefit plans, respectively. Contributions are based on a percentage of pensionable wages or requirements necessary to satisfy funding obligations. We expect to make contributions of approximately $7.3 million for our international defined benefit plans for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017. We do not anticipate making contributions to the U.S. plans in fiscal 2017. From time to time we enter into delivery contracts with selected suppliers for certain metals used in our production processes. The delivery contracts represent routine purchase orders for delivery within three months and payment is due upon receipt. As of March 31, 2016, we had no material outstanding purchase commitments. We have a $3.4 million liability related to our uncertain tax positions. Due to the nature of the underlying liabilities and the extended time often needed to resolve income tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably estimate the amount or timing of cash payments that may be required to settle these liabilities beyond 2016. For additional information, refer to Note 9. 36 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, warranties, inventories, pensions, income taxes, and contingencies. Management bases its estimates, judgments, and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. While our estimates and assumptions are based on our knowledge of current events and actions we may undertake in the future, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from these estimates and assumptions. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our accounting policies and disclosure practices. In managements opinion, the critical accounting policies and estimates, as defined below, are more complex in nature and require a higher degree of judgment than the remainder of our accounting policies described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements elsewhere herein. Revenue Recognition All of our products are built to specification and tested by us or our suppliers for adherence to such specification before shipment to customers. We ship products to customers based upon firm orders. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. We recognize revenue when the sales process is complete. This occurs when products are shipped to the customer in accordance with the terms of an agreement of sale, there is a fixed or determinable selling price, title and risk of loss have been transferred, and collectability is reasonably assured. We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in FASB ASC 605 45, Principal Agent Considerations. Based on the evaluation with our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 605 45 45, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis. Estimates used in determining sales allowance programs described below are subject to the volatilities of the market place. This includes, but is not limited to, changes in economic conditions, pricing changes, product demand, inventory levels in the supply chain, the effects of technological change, and other variables that might result in changes to our estimates. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Returns Sales revenue and cost of sales reported in the income statement are reduced to reflect estimated returns. We record an estimated sales allowance for returns at the time of sale based on historical trends, current pricing and volume information, other market specific information, and input from sales, marketing, and other key management personnel. The amount accrued reflects the return of value of the customers inventory. These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments. We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns. Our actual results have historically approximated our estimates. When the product is returned and verified, the customer is given credit against their accounts receivable. Distribution Programs A portion of our sales are to independent electronic component distributors, which are subject to various distributor sales programs. We report provisions for distributor allowances in connection with such sales programs as a reduction in revenue and report distributor allowances in the balance sheet as a reduction in accounts receivable. For the distribution programs described below, we do not track the individual units that we record against specific products sold from distributor inventories, which would allow us to directly compare revenue reduction for credits recorded during any period with credits ultimately awarded in respect of products sold during that period. Nevertheless, we believe that we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program. 37 Distributor Stock Rotation Program Stock rotation is a program whereby distributors are allowed to return for credit qualified inventory, semi annually, equal to a certain percentage, primarily limited to 5% of the previous six months net sales. We record an estimated sales allowance for stock rotation at the time of sale based on a percentage of distributor sales using historical trends, current pricing and volume information, other market specific information, and input from sales, marketing, and other key management personnel. These procedures require the exercise of significant judgment. We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns under the stock rotation program. Our actual results have historically approximated our estimates. When the product is returned and verified, the distributor is given credit against their accounts receivable. Distributor Ship from Stock and Debit Program Ship from Stock and Debit (ship and debit) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers. Ship and debit programs require a request from the distributor for a pricing adjustment for a specific part for a sale to the distributors end customer from the distributors stock. Ship and debit authorizations may cover current and future distributor activity for a specific part for sale to their customer. At the time we record sales to the distributors, we provide an allowance for the estimated future distributor activity related to such sales since it is probable that such sales to distributors will result in ship and debit activity. We record an estimated sales allowance based on sales during the period, credits issued to distributors, distributor inventory levels, historical trends, market conditions, pricing trends we see in our direct sales activity with original equipment manufacturers and other customers, and input from sales, marketing, and other key management personnel. These procedures require the exercise of significant judgment. We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future credits under the ship and debit program. Our actual results have historically approximated our estimates. At the time the distributor ships the part from stock, the distributor debits us for the authorized pricing adjustment. Special Incentive Programs We may offer special incentive discounts based on amount of product ordered or shipped. At the time we record sales under these agreements, we provide an allowance for the discounts on the sales for which the customer is eligible to take. The customer then debits us for the authorized discount amount. Inventories We determine the cost of raw materials, work in process, and finished goods inventories by the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Manufactured inventory costs include material, labor, and manufacturing overhead. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market (net realizable value). We value inventory at its market value where there is evidence that the utility of goods will be less than cost and that such write down should occur in the current period. Accordingly, at the end of each period, we evaluate our inventory and adjust to net realizable value the carrying value and excess quantities. We review and adjust the carrying value of our inventories based on historical usage, customer forecasts received from marketing and sales personnel, customer backlog, certain date code restrictions, technology changes, demand increases and decreases, market directional shifts, and obsolescence and aging. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our tax assets and liabilities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves management estimating the actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recoverable based on all available evidence, both positive and negative. To the extent we believe that recovery is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. 38 We have recorded valuation allowances due to uncertainties related to our ability to realize some of our deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of certain net operating losses carried forward before they expire. The valuation allowance is based on our estimates of future taxable income over the periods that our deferred tax assets will be recoverable. We continue to evaluate countries where we have a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets due to historical operating losses and when such positive evidence outweighs negative evidence we will release such valuation allowance as appropriate. We also record a provision for certain international, federal, and state tax contingencies based on the likelihood of obligation, when needed. In the normal course of business, we are subject to challenges from U.S. and non U.S. tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges may result in adjustments of the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. Further, during the ordinary course of business, other changing facts and circumstances may impact our ability to utilize tax benefits as well as the estimated taxes to be paid in future periods. We believe that any potential tax exposures have been sufficiently provided for in the consolidated financial statements. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates, we may need to adjust tax accounts and related payments, which could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. We account for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in our financial statements. We recognize in our financial statements the impact of a tax position, if that position would more likely than not be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Accruals for estimated interest and penalties are recorded as a component of interest expense. We record deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences associated with deductions for foreign branch losses claimed by us in our U.S. income tax returns, as these deductions are subject to recapture provisions in the U.S. income tax code. When the recapture period expires for these deductions, the liabilities are removed and the tax benefit is recognized in the income tax provision. Pension Assumptions Pension benefit obligations and the related effects on operations are calculated using actuarial models. Two critical assumptions, discount rate and expected rate of return on plan assets, are important elements of plan expense and or liability measurement. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. To determine the discount rate, we apply the expected cash flows from each individual pension plan to specific yield curves at the plans measurement date and determine a level equivalent yield that may be unique to each plan. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. To determine the expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. Other assumptions involve demographic factors such as retirement, mortality, and turnover. These assumptions are evaluated periodically and are updated to reflect our experience. Actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors. In such cases, the differences between actual results and actuarial assumptions are amortized over future periods. 39 Environmental Compliance We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning the environment in the United States and to the environmental laws and regulations of the other countries in which we operate. Based on our periodic review of the operating policies and practices at all of our facilities, we believe that our operations are currently in substantial compliance, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. Regarding sites identified by the EPA at which remediation is required, our ultimate liability in connection with environmental claims will depend on many factors, including our volumetric share of non environmentally safe waste, the total cost of remediation, and the financial viability of other companies having liability. Additionally, we operate on sites that may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at sites during the long history of manufacturing operations by AVX or its corporate predecessor or prior to the start of operations by AVX. Even though we may have rights of indemnity for such environmental matters at certain sites, regulatory agencies in those jurisdictions may require us to address such issues. We recognize liabilities for environmental exposures when analysis indicates that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. When a range of loss can be estimated, we accrue the most likely amount. In the event that no amount in the range of probable loss is considered most likely, the minimum loss in the range is accrued. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available. The uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, regulatory actions, technology, and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure, therefore these costs could differ from our current estimates. Our environmental reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any possible future insurance recoveries, which are not expected to be significant, but do reflect a reasonable estimate of cost sharing at multiple party sites or indemnification of our liability by a third party. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the FASB issued changes to the criteria for determining which disposals are required to be presented as discontinued operations. The changes require a disposal of a component of an entity or a group of components of an entity to be reported in discontinued operations if the disposal represents a strategic shift that has, or will have, a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results when any of the following occurs: (i) the component of an entity or group of components of an entity meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, (ii) the component of an entity or group or components of an entity is disposed of by sale, or (iii) the component of an entity or group of components of an entity is disposed of other than by sale. The amendments apply on a prospective basis to disposals of components of an entity that occur within annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014 and interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. The implementation of the amended accounting guidance on January 1, 2015 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014 09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This guidance modifies the financial reporting of revenue and how an entity will determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. The guidance provides for a five step approach in applying the standard: 1) identifying the contract with the customer, 2) identifying separate performance obligations in the contract, 3) determining the transaction price, 4) allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations, and 5) recognizing the revenue when the performance obligation has been satisfied. The new guidance requires enhanced disclosures for the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is being recognized. The guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Companies may use either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach to adopt ASU 2014 09. Early adoption is not permitted. Management is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015 17, Income Taxes. This guidance simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes which have previously been split between current and noncurrent deferred tax assets and liabilities. Accordingly, the recording and presentation of deferred income taxes are required to be presented as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. The guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted and management elected to adopt this guidance prospectively beginning with the interim reporting period ended December 31, 2015. The impact on the Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2015 would have been a decrease in current deferred income tax assets of $77.0 million and an increase in non current deferred income tax assets of $77.0 million as well as a decrease of current deferred income tax liabilities of $0.4 million and an increase of non current deferred income tax liabilities of $0.4 million. 40 In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016 2, Leases. This guidance changes the inclusion of certain right of use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position. The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases. Regarding financial leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right of use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right of use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right of use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. This guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Management is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. We have reviewed other newly issued accounting pronouncements and concluded that they are either not applicable to our business or that no material effect is expected on our consolidated financial statements as a result of future adoption. Relationship with Kyocera and Related Transactions Kyocera is the majority stockholder of AVX. As of May 13, 2016, Kyocera owned beneficially and of record 121,800,000 shares of AVX common stock, representing approximately 73% of our outstanding shares. From January 1990 through August 15, 1995, AVX was wholly owned by Kyocera. On August 15, 1995, Kyocera sold 22.9%, or 39,300,000 shares of AVXs common stock, and AVX sold an additional 4,400,000 shares of common stock, in a public offering. In February 2000, Kyocera sold an additional 10,500,000 shares of its AVX common stock. Our business includes transactions with Kyocera. Such transactions involve the purchase of resale inventories, raw materials, supplies and equipment, the sale of products for resale, raw materials, supplies and equipment, the payment of dividends, subcontracting activities, and commissions. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements elsewhere herein for more information on the related party transactions. Kyocera notified AVX in February 2014 of its intent, effective April 1, 2015, to market its connector products in Asia using Kyoceras sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products in Asia. Sales of Kyocera connector products in Asia were $1.1 million, $47.5 million, and $44.9 million with operating profit of $0.4 million, $1.9 million, and $2.7 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. One principal strategic advantage for AVX is our ability to produce a broad product offering to our customers. The inclusion of products manufactured by Kyocera in that product offering is a significant component of this advantage. In addition, the exchange of information with Kyocera relating to the development and manufacture of multi layer ceramic capacitors and various other ceramic products benefits AVX. An adverse change in our relationship with Kyocera could have a negative impact on our results of operations. AVX and Kyocera have executed several agreements that govern the foregoing transactions and which are described below. The Special Advisory Committee of our Board, comprised of our independent directors (currently Messrs. Stach, DeCenzo, and Christiansen), reviews and approves any significant agreements between AVX and Kyocera and any significant transactions between AVX and Kyocera not covered by such agreements. The committee is also responsible for reviewing and approving any agreements and transactions between AVX and any other related party that are or may be within the scope of applicable rules, regulations and guidance of the New York Stock Exchange and Item 404 of Regulation S K, if they arise. The Special Advisory Committee operates under a written charter which sets forth the policies and procedures for such approvals. In approving any such agreement or transaction pursuant to those procedures, the Special Advisory Committee must determine that, in its judgment, the terms thereof are equivalent to those to which an independent unrelated party would agree at arms length or are otherwise in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders generally. Each of the agreements described below contains provisions requiring that the terms of any transaction under such agreement be equivalent to those to which an independent unrelated party would agree at arms length. 41 Products Supply and Distribution Agreement. Pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement (the Distribution Agreement) (i) AVX will act as the non exclusive distributor of certain Kyocera manufactured products to certain customers in certain territories outside of Japan and (ii) Kyocera will act as the non exclusive distributor of certain AVX manufactured products within Japan. The Distribution Agreement has a term of one year, with automatic one year renewals, subject to the right of termination by either party at the end of the then current term upon at least three months prior written notice. Disclosure and Option to License Agreement. Pursuant to the Disclosure and Option to License Agreement (the License Agreement), AVX and Kyocera exchange confidential information relating to the development and manufacture of multi layered ceramic capacitors and various other ceramic products, as well as the license of technologies in certain circumstances. The License Agreement has a term of one year with automatic one year renewals, subject to the right of termination by either party at the end of the then current term upon at least six months prior written notice. Materials Supply Agreement. Pursuant to the Materials Supply Agreement (the Supply Agreement), AVX and Kyocera will, from time to time, supply the other party with certain raw and semi processed materials used in the manufacture of capacitors and other electronic components. The Supply Agreement has a term of one year, with automatic one year renewals, subject to the right of termination by either party at the end of the then current term upon at least six months prior written notice. Machinery and Equipment Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the Machinery and Equipment Purchase Agreement (the Machinery Purchase Agreement), AVX and Kyocera will, from time to time, design and manufacture for the other party certain equipment and machinery of a proprietary and confidential nature used in the manufacture of capacitors and other electronic components. The Machinery Purchase Agreement has a term of one year, with automatic one year renewals, subject to the right of termination by either party at the end of the then current term upon at least six months prior written notice. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Currency We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk with respect to our sales, profits, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, we are not fully protected against foreign currency fluctuations and our reported results of operations could be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. International revenues and expenses transacted by our foreign subsidiaries may be denominated in local currency. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements elsewhere herein for further discussion of derivative financial instruments. For fiscal 2016, our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk was estimated using a sensitivity analysis, which illustrates a hypothetical change in the average foreign currency exchange rates used during the year. Actual changes in foreign currency exchange rates may differ from this hypothetical change. Based on a hypothetical increase or decrease of 10% in the exchange rates, assuming no hedging against foreign currency rate changes, we would have incurred an additional foreign currency gain or loss of approximately $13.6 million in fiscal 2016. Materials We are at risk to fluctuations in prices for commodities used to manufacture our products, primarily tantalum, palladium, platinum, silver, nickel, gold, and copper. Prices for many of these metals have fluctuated significantly during the past year. Tantalum powder and wire are principal materials used in the manufacture of tantalum capacitor products. The tantalum required to manufacture our products has generally been available in sufficient quantity. The limited number of tantalum material suppliers has led to higher prices during periods of increased demand. 
</SECTION>
